

UNCLE TOM'S CABIN;
BY MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.

In two volumes of 312 pages each.

  For thrilling delineation of character, and power of description, this work is unrivalled. It has been denominated, and with truth, THE STORY OF THE AGE! The fact that ten thousand copies have been sold in two weeks is evidence sufficient of its unbounded popularity. Three paper mills are constantly at work, manufacturing the paper, and three power presses are working twenty-four hours per day, in printing it, and more than one hundred bookbinders are incessantly plying their trade, to bind them, and still it has been impossible as yet to supply the demand. Testimonials of the strongest kind, numerous enough to fill a volume, have already appeared in the public journals. We have room only for the following, from the Congregationalist of the 2d inst.:

  "We conceive, the, that in writing 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe has done more to diffuse real knowledge of the facts and workings of American Slavery, and to arouse the sluggish nation to shake off the curse, and abate the wrong than has been accomplished by all the orations, and anniversaries, and arguments, and documents, which the last ten years have been the witness of. Let nobody by afraid of it because it does not claim to be a memoir, or a table of statistics. It is the interlacing of a thousand memoirs, and the very quintessence of infinite statistics. It takes no extreme views. It does not seek to seize upon the most horrible atrocities, and brand the whole system as worse than it is. It is fair, and generous, and calm, and candid. A slave-holder might read it without anger, but not easily without a secret abhorrence of the system which he himself upholds. It brings out, quietly and collaterally, those incidental features of servitude which are usually little thought of, but which are the overflow of its cup of abominations. We look upon the writing of this book as providential, and upon it as the best missionary God has yet sent into the field to plead for his poor and oppressed children of the South. Such a book was a necessity of the age, and had to be written, and we are grateful to God that he put the writing of it into the hands of one who has interwoven Evangelical influences with every page of its narrative, and compressed many a Gospel sermon into its field and fireside converse. Its appeal to our sympathies is genuine. It artlessly pictures facts, and the facts make us feel. We have never read a story of more power. We doubt if anybody has. The human being who can read it through dry eyes, is commended to Barnum."

  Copies of this work are for sale at this office. Price—in paper covers, $1; cloth, $1.50; cloth, full gilt, $2.

  Persons at a distance of not over 500 miles can have this work in paper covers mailed to them, free of postage, on addressing L. Clephane at this office, and enclosing $1 in money and 27 cents in post office stamps—over 500 miles the postage will be 54 cents.



"UNCLE TOM'S CABIN"
BY MRS. HARRIET B. STOWE

  "Spread it around the world"! is the feeling which come first, the instant, urgent, inevitable impulse, as one rises from the perusal of this fascinating book. It is not so much for the exquisite delineations of scenery and of character which are assembled in it—though these range every whither, from the Ohio roads to the swamps of the Red-River, and from Tom Loker, the swearing gigantic Kentuckian, to the placid Aunt Deborah who smoothes his coverlid, and distils upon his sick-bed her spirit of peace. It is not so much for the admirable qualities of genius and of character which are brightly expressed in it; though in this regard also it stands preeminent among recent publications, the glowing utterance of a generous, affluent, intensely sympathetic and earnest soul. But it is for the moral of the book that we would spread it. For the freshness and power with which the experience of the Christian is developed in it, amid the most difficult and painful circumstances; for the sudden light which is thrown on many passages of the Scriptures; the disclosures which are made, transcendent yet self-evidencing, of the attainments which are possible in Christian faith, as well in this as in the distant martyr-ages; for this, and also even mainly, for the vivid and mighty revelation which it makes of the internal structure and operations of the Slave-system; for the clearness, thoroughness, dramatic vigor with which it unfolds into visible procession the horrible elements of that great valley and shadow of Death, into which so many northern Christians are zealous to hurl back the panting trembling Christians who have escaped from it;—for this we welcome it. For this we would spread it, till every family in the land had read it; till Northward and Southward, Eastward and Westward it had become familiar, (as thank God, it bids fair to be!) as household words.

  There is no exaggeration in this book. There is no attempt made to conceal the brighter aspects of the Slave-system, as they are met in the more northern agricultural districts, or sometimes in the household life of the cities. There is shown too a really wonderful appreciation of the difficulties in which the master finds himself entangled, when aroused to his duty as a Christian toward those who have come into his hands from his Fathers; and we have never heard the arguments of the Slave-holder more fairly or forcibly stated by his own lips than they are by Mrs. Stowe, in the clear, sarcastic, ringing words of the generous St. Clare. But yet the truth of the matter is told, after all. The book is full of the intensest Truth; the very Truth, of facts and of ethics. As the artist attains the highest truth, that which is really enduring and valuable, not in the simple mechanical imitation of lines and colors as they meet him at any one point in Nature, but in the gathering from different scenes the element which in each is differential and characteristic, and in grouping and combining these various elements, breadth of view, sharpness of outline, softness of tone, with exquisite commingling of rock, meadow, stream and homestead, until they form a scene such as perhaps has never been strictly and literally realized in any one existing landscape, yet such as might be combined at any time, as lies within the range of constant possibility—so in this book, though the several incidents as connected with the life of "Uncle Tom" may not all have occurred, we have the fullest clearest Truth on the matter of Slavery. The tremendous liability under which the husbands and wives whom it afflicts continually lie, of being severed forever and hopelessly at any moment; the perfect power which it gives to the master over the strength of man, the chastity of woman, and the keenest sensibility of the youth and the child; the cruelties which it allows and does not punish; the debasement and barbarism which it tends to perpetuate in the black, and the terrible reacting influence on the Master which is diffused from its whole structure—all is truthfully expressed here.

  With a careful unexaggerating fidelity to facts that the Southerner must accept, it unites an outspoken energy and fearlessness of portraiture that the Northerner must feel. We cannot but hope that this book is to accomplish a great work for Humanity. Not only here, but in Baltimore, in Washington, in New Orleans, it will be read. The Twentieth Thousand of copies, we rejoice to know, has already been published; and the pressure for a supply exceeds continually the number that can be furnished. Is there one who can read it without the purpose, self-reforming in his heart on the instant as he reads, that for himself he will not be allied, in any the remotest responsible connection, with this ungodly and desolating system! The man who is in it may not see his way to get out of it readily; at least without a pecuniary sacrifice to which only the spirit of the largest Christian benevolence can impel him. But we of the North, we who boast of our freedom, and are uncursed with bondmen— is it possible there are those among us who will uphold the system, by effective and guilty participation in it? who will aid and abet, by political action at least, in sending black men and shuddering women to this horrible bondage; horrible in its constant liabilities and hazards, even when most mildly and humanely administered?

  For ourselves, we try hard to think calmly on the matter; and we will not judge those who differ in opinion and in action from us. But there are times when to us the very air of Society seems heavy and pestilential with the taint of this iniquity; when the burden of the thought of it is greater than we can bear. Sooner than send back a human being into this oppression, unrighteously begun, iniquitously maintained, and crushing daily the souls of men for the profit of their oppressors—sooner than aid by vote or by influence any man or any system that would do this—certainly we would pray to God to give us strength to bear what Uncle Tom did, and manifold more if it came! Our heartiest efforts are ever for the fugitive; our prayers, and our desires. To him our purse shall always be open, as long as God permits us to have one. And almost any national revulsion would seem to us slight and easy to be borne, if not directly and positively desirable, which should shake the shackles from these millions of souls! God speed the day, and give us grace in our measure and sphere to help it forward, when such a book as that before us shall be valuable only as historically suggestive; shall be read as the almost incredible record of barbarities and endurances thenceforth impossible! The man who has met, in travelling at the South, the groups of women, men and children, each one of whom has parents, a husband, a wife, a circle of friends, to whom each personally is as sacred and dear as we to ours, as any mother or child in Brooklyn to that dear group in which they move—but all of whom have been bought, beneath the shadow of our national flag, to be scattered over the cotton fields and the rice swamps of the far South, to meet no more this side of the Judgement—that man will not be ready, if he be a Christian in his heart, to 'curse God and die,' nor even to curse his country and abjure it and strip himself of allegiance to it, but he will be ready, if he has a heart that is any way softer than the slave-master's mallet, to resolve that for him, so help him God, he will do his uttermost to break down the system! By the dear allegiance he owes to wife, and the reverent homage he pays to parents, and the thirst of his soul as he looks on the glowing faces of his babes, by the anguish of his heart at the thought of their being torn violently from him, he will not rest or sleep, or enjoy, till personally he is purged of this fearful wickedness! No possible political or ecclesiastical relation should stand with us for a moment in the way of this deep-sunk and determined conviction!

  We have essayed so far from the starting point, that we had almost omitted to mention that the book is for sale in New York by Mr. Harned, 48 Beekman street; and that he will supply copies in answer to orders from a distance, as he has already had the pleasure of doing for booksellers at Baltimore and other Southern cities. Again, we add, let ALL MEN read it!

S.



The contents of these volumes have been given, by installments, for several months past, as a consecutive narrative, in the National Era; exciting among the numerous readers of that journal, even with all the disadvantages of such a piecemeal publication, a deep and thrilling interest, increasing in intensity to the finishing stroke. We have waited till the appearance of the work in its present form, before attempting its perusal. Now that we have read it, we are able to express our opinions as to its merits

  First, let the author speak for herself, as she does in her Preface:—"The object of these sketches is to awaken sympathy and feeling for the African race, as they exist among us; to show their wrongs and sorrows, under a system so necessarily cruel and unjust all to defeat and do away the good effects of all that can be attempted for them, by their best friends, under it. In doing this, the author can sincerely disclaim any invidious feeling towards those individuals who, often without any fault of their own, are involved in the trials and embarrassments of the legal relations of slavery."

  In the execution of her very difficult task, Mrs. Stowe has displayed rare descriptive powers, a familiar acquaintance with slavery under its best and worst phases, uncommon moral and philosophical acumen, great facility of thought and expression, feelings and emotions of the strongest character. Intimate as we have been, for a score of years, with the features and operations of the slave system, and often as we have listened to the recitals of its horrors from the lips of the poor hunted fugitives, we confess to the frequent moistening of our eyes, and the making of our heart grow liquid as water, and the trembling of every nerve within us, in the perusal of the incidents and scenes so vividly depicted in her pages. The effect of such a work upon all intelligent and humane minds coming in contact with it, and especially upon the rising generation in its plastic condition, to awaken the strongest compassion for the oppressed and the utmost abhorrence of the system which grinds them to the dust, cannot be estimated: it must be prodigious, and therefore eminently serviceable in the tremendous conflict now waged for the immediate and entire suppression of slavery on the American soil.

  The appalling liabilities which constantly impend over such slaves as have "kind and indulgent masters" are thrillingly illustrated in various personal narratives; especially in that of "Uncle Tom," over whose fate every reader will drop the scalding tear, and for whose character the highest reverence will be felt. No insult, no outrage, no suffering could ruffle the Christ-like meekness of his spirit, and shake the steadfastness of his faith. Towards his merciless oppressors, he cherished no animosity, and breathed nothing of retaliation. Like his Lord and Master, he was willing to be "led as a lamb to the slaughter," returning blessing for cursing, and anxious only for the salvation of his enemies. His character is sketched with great power and rare religious perception. It triumphantly exemplifies the nature, tendency and results of CHRISTIAN NON-RESISTANCE. We are curious to know whether Mrs. Stowe is a believer in the duty of non-resistance for the white man, under all possible outrage and peril, as well as for the black man; whether she is for self-defense on her own part, or that of her husband or friends or country, in case of malignant assault, or whether she impartially disarms all mankind in the name of Christ, be the danger or suffering what it may. We are curious to know this, because our opinion of her, as a religious teacher, would be greatly strengthened or lessened, as the inquiry might terminate. That all the slaves at the South ought, "if smitten on the one cheek, to turn the other also"—to repudiate all carnal weapons, shed no blood, "be obedient to their masters," wait for a peaceful deliverance, and abstain for all insurrectionary movements—is every where taken for granted, because the VICTIMS ARE BLACK. They cannot be animated by a Christian spirit, and yet return blow for blow, or conspire for the destruction of their oppressors. They are required by the Bible to put away all wrath, to submit to every conceivable outrage without resistance, to suffer with Christ if they would reign with him. None of their advocates may seek to inspire them to imitate the example of the Greeks, the Poles, the Hungarians, our Revolutionary sires; for such teaching would evince a most unchristian and blood-thirsty dispostion. For them there is no hope of heaven, unless they give the most liberal interpretations to the non-resisting injunctions contained in the Sermon on the Mount, touching the treatment of enemies. It is for them, though despoiled of all their rights and deprived of all protection, to "threaten not, but to commit the keeping of their souls to God in well-doing, as unto a faithful Creator." Nothing can be plainer than that such conduct is obligatory upon them; and when, through the operations of divine grace, they are enabled to manifest a spirit like this, it is acknowledged to be worthy of great commendation, as in the case of "Uncle Tom." But, for those whose skin is of a different complexion, the case is materially altered. When they are spit upon and buffeted, outraged and oppressed, talk not then of a non-resisting Saviour—it is fanaticism! Talk not of overcoming evil with good—it is madness! Talk not of peacefully submitting to chains and stripes—it is base servility! Talk not of servants being obedient to their masters—let the blood of tyrants flow! How is this to be explained or reconciled? Is there one law of submission and non-resistance for the black man, and another law of rebellion and conflict for the white man? When it is the whites who are trodden in the dust, does Christ justify them in taking up arms to vindicate their rights? And when it is the blacks who are thus treated, does Christ require them to be patient, harmless, long-suffering, and forgiving? And are there two Christs?

  The work, towards its conclusion, contains some objectionable sentiments respecting African colonization, which we regret to see.



UNCLE TOM'S CABIN;

OR, LIFE AMONG THE LOWLY.
  This book, written by Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, daughter of that famous old man, Dr. Beecher, and wife of Dr. Calvin Stowe, is a very noble one. We have read it, as it was published piecemeal, in the National Era, with ever-increasing delight. The deepest spirity of piety, and the largest spirit of humanity prevail on every page, and charm in every line.

  The main purpose of the book is to show the system of Slavery in the United States as it really is. This is done with singular truthfulness and remarkable wisdom. It is evident at first glance that she has obtained all her knowledge at first-hand. No one who had not lived in the midst of slavery, and observed it most sharply, could have made a picture so faithful in its minute details, as well as in its general effect. The book breathes the very air of the Kentucky farm and the Louisiana plantation. In this respect alone it is a real addition to American literature. Nine-tenths even of the good books written in the country might, for all we can see, have been as easily written in England, or on the Continent. Only the tenth book bears the stamp of an American growth, and is an autocthon—born of the soil. Such a book is this of Mrs. Stowe, one which could not have been written but by an American—by one acquainted with the actual workings of slavery, and acutely observing its most casual and fleeting shadows. We have the virtues and the vices, the rudeness and refinement, the chivalry and meanness, the wild generosity and the Yankee cunning which are found mixed together in this singular system of American Slavery, which is so fast becoming the American institution. Even that curious patois, the negro dialect, is very accurately represented in these chapters.

  But the spirit of truth—of stern, downright truth of this story, is far more extraordinary than its picturesque fidelity in details. Mrs. Stowe has avoided all the dangers to one or another of which most of those who write on this subject fall a prey. She has resisted the temptation to exaggeration of every kind. She has shown the evils inherent in the system, but has painted generous and noble characters among those involved in it. Mr. Garrison's proverb that "Where there is a sin there is a sinner," has not blinded her to nature's proverb, that "This is a very mixed-up world." On the other hand, no longing after poetic justice, no wish of the novelist to bring about a happy termination of the story, has caused her to shrink from the tragic truth of the facts as they are. Her slaves are not all good, nor all evil. It is shown how they are brutified and made brutal by the system. It is shown how they may be mirthful, yet not joyous; happy, under a kind and conscientious master, yet liable in a week's time, by the uncertainty of life and of earthly possessions, to come under the control of a brutal and wicked one. It is shown how, as a matter of course, and as a necessary part of the system, parents and children, husbands and wives, are suddenly and forever separated; the conscientious and the pure thrown upon the mercy of the merciless and licentious; and how every slave, no matter how well situated he may be, is liable every moment to be transferred to a situation where his previous happiness only imbitters his present misery, and where even his piety may give offence, and his Christianity be a crime.

  But Mrs. Stowe, while making a book true as death to the unspeakable evils of this system, has show that even here Life can triumph over Death, and the power and presence of God be a sufficient support to his most lowly children. She has made it very possible to believe that the greatest triumphs of Christ and of his Gospel are still, as at first, taking place among the down-trodden and the wretched. We have long thought that the real romance and heroism of our time was to be found among the slaves and fugitives from slavery. We begin to believe now, that to their most miserable and most needy condition there may have come a deeper manifestation of the power and love of Christ than elsewhere; and, at all events, while the story of Uncle Tom's religious experiences reads like a chapter out of mediæval hagiographa, we know that it is true to the real accounts of religous experiences among the slaves.

  In conclusion, we would say that, having lived seven years in the midst of slavery, we can testify to the perfect and full accuracy of these pictures of the American institution. It is the book for the times, and we trust that it will be everywhere read and circulated.



Literary Notices
UNCLE TOM'S CABIN; or, Life among the Lowly. By Harriet Beecher Stowe. Boston: John P. Jewett & Co. Cleveland, Ohio: Jewett, Proctor, & Worthington. 1852. For sale at the office of the National Era.
  We have not here the space in which to say all we think and feel regarding this wonderful work. It was a noble effort—it is a splendid success. The God of Freedom inspired the thought—the spirit of his love and wisdom guided the pen of the writer, so her words shall sink into the softened and repentant heart of the wrong-doer, and spring up into a harvest of good, for the poor and the oppressed.

  This beautiful new evangel of freedom—for so the book seems to us—does not suddenly flash the intolerable light of God's truth upon souls benighted in error, but softly drops veil after veil till they stand in mid-day brightness, wondering and remorseful.

  There are two characters in this work which will live as long as our literature—Tom and little Eva—the ebony statue of Christlike patience—the rose of love blossoming with immortal sweetness at its base. No human heart can receive these two visitants, and none can refuse them when they come, without taking in with them the pleading, sorrowing Spirit of humanity, and the stern Angel of justice.

  We have undertaken nothing like a critique of this book; but we must be allowed to say, even in this circumscribed notice, that the work to us gives evidence of greater power, of deeper and more various resources, than any other novel of the time. It displays rare dramatic genius, its characters are strongly drawn, refreshingly peculiar and original, yet wondrously true to nature and to many a reader's experience of life. It abounds alike with quaint, delicious humor, and the most heart-searching pathos; with the vividest word-painting, in the way of description, with argument, philosophy, eloquence, and poetry. And straight and pure through all—through characterization, conversation, description, and narrative, sweeps the continuous moral—the one deep thought, flowing ceaselessly from the soul of the writer, and fed by "under-springs of silent deity."

  So great and good a thing has Mrs. Stowe here accomplished for humanity, for freedom, for God, that we cannot refrain from applying to her sacred words, and exclaiming, "Blessed art thou among women!"



“Colored” Views
  ILIUM FUIT—the deed is done, and the South done for. Uncle Neds generally may lay down hoe and shovel, and taking up the violin, go to fiddling, or embark in the oyster-opening profession, or the "brush" trade—the three metiers our free and independent gentlemen of color most affect. Mrs. Stowe, abandoning her husband's hose, has seized upon that of the abolition engine and is playing away a full stream upon Southern people and Southern institutions generally. How to treat her book is our difficulty at present, for as a lengthy abolition tract, we desire no acquaintance with it, as a political affair, it is entirely out of our province, its descriptions of the white and colored races as they exist below "Mason's and Dixon's" are too nearly antipodical to reality to entitle it to much usefulness as an ethnological essay, and finally when warm weather is coming rapidly in, a novel, with heroes and heroines exclusively African, and winding up by the introduction of a colored lady whom a white gentleman of birth, respectability, and wealth has taken to wife, thereby setting an example to a rising generation of amalgamationists, is rather too potent and decidely odorous for our—perhaps fastidious—taste.

  We must regard the work as a whole, and rather an odd one, being neither fish nor flesh, nor yet good red herring.

  With anti-slavery almanacs, Garrisonian reports, "Liberty" speeches for Buncombe, and the ravings of Abby Kelly, Mrs. Stowe has constructed a most frightful scarecrow, and calling upon her Dickon—the printer's imp—to light its pipe, sends it forth into the world, thinking to pass it off for a true man of blood and bone and muscle, and that the South will own and endorse the fright. We think, however, that as in the case of Hawthorne's man, a little reflection will do its business.

  The book, despite its subject and the mode of handling it, has many good points, and we are disposed to do full justice to them; but unlike the fair author,—being somewhat indisposed to all amalgamation,—we will not serve up the ludicrous and the revolting together. As is the fashion with some hosts, let us have the good wine first, the bad after, or rather the pudding pour commencer to be succeeded by the sauce.

  Mrs. Stowe is evidently intended by nature for an humorous writer, and an occasional dash of wit and fun prove that her forte is rather farce than comedy and tragedy or political economy. As for instance—

PREPARING FOR A MEETING

   "Well, now, I hopes you're done," said Aunt Chloe, who had been busy in pulling out a rude box of a trundle-bed; "and now, you Mose and you Pete, get into thar; for we's goin' to have the meetin'."

  "O mother, we don't wanter. We wants to sit up to meetin', — meetin's is so curis. We likes 'em."

  "La, Aunt Chloe, shove it under, and let 'em sit up," said Mas'r George, decisively, giving a push to the rude machine.

  Aunt Chloe, having thus saved appearances, seemed highly delighted to push the thing under, saying, as she did so, "Well, mebbe 't will do 'em some good."

  The house now resolved itself into a committee of the whole, to consider the accommodations and arrangements for the meeting.

  "What we's to do for cheers, now, I declar I don't know," said Aunt Chloe. As the meeting had been held at Uncle Tom's weekly, for an indefinite length of time, without any more "cheers," there seemed some encouragement to hope that a way would be discovered at present.

  "Old Uncle Peter sung both de legs out of dat oldest cheer, last week," suggested Mose.

  "You go long! I'll boun' you pulled 'em out; some o' your shines," said Aunt Chloe.

  "Well, it'll stand, if it only keeps jam up agin de wall!" said Mose.

  "Den Uncle Peter mus'n't sit in it, cause he al'ays hitches when he gets a singing. He hitched pretty nigh across de room, t' other night," said Pete.

  "Good Lor! get him in it, then," said Mose, "and den he'd begin, 'Come saints — and sinners, hear me tell,' and den down he'd go," — and Mose imitated precisely the nasal tones of the old man, tumbling on the floor, to illustrate the supposed catastrophe.

  "Come now, be decent, can't ye?" said Aunt Chloe; "an't yer shamed?"

  Mas'r George, however, joined the offender in the laugh, and declared decidedly that Mose was a "buster." So the maternal admonition seemed rather to fail of effect.

  "Well, ole man," said Aunt Chloe, "you'll have to tote in them ar bar'ls."

  "Mother's bar'ls is like dat ar widder's, Mas'r George was reading 'bout, in de good book, — dey never fails," said Mose, aside to Peter.

  "I'm sure one on 'em caved in last week," said Pete, "and let 'em all down in de middle of de singin'; dat ar was failin', warnt it?"

  Now, although very amusing indeed, there is nothing negro about all this. The remarks of the boys belong to the pert Yankee order, and the language is a mixture of Tappan-Zee Dutch, the true Bowery, or "Mose" lingo, and the Ohio boatman's slang. Other specimens prove that the author has devoted no little time to the acquisition of Dow Junior's peculiar style, as

SAM'S OPINION OF PERSISTENCE

  "Dis yer matter 'bout persistence, feller-niggers," said Sam, with the air of one entering into an abstruse subject, "dis yer 'sistency 's a thing what an't seed into very clar, by most anybody. Now, yer see, when a feller stands up for a thing one day and night, de contrar de next, folks ses (and nat'rally enough dey ses), why he an't persistent, — hand me dat ar bit o' corn- cake, Andy. But let's look inter it. I hope the gen'lmen and der fair sex will scuse my usin' an or'nary sort o' 'parison. Here! I'm a trying to get top o' der hay. Wal, I puts up my larder dis yer side; 'tan't no go; — den, cause I don't try dere no more, but puts my larder right de contrar side, an't I persistent? I'm persistent in wantin' to get up which ary side my larder is; don't you see, all on yer?"

  Perhaps one of the best hits in the book is a sketch of a Kentucky tavern, with its free and easy guests and a supply of tobacco ad libitum. Nothing in Mr. Genin's treatise can beat the

ESSAY ON HATS

   "In fact, everybody in the room bore on his head this characteristic emblem of man's sovereignty; whether it were felt hat, palm-leaf, greasy beaver, or fine new chapeau, there it reposed with true republican independence. In truth, it appeared to be the characteristic mark of every individual. Some wore them tipped rakishly to one side — these were your men of humor, jolly, free-and-easy dogs; some had them jammed independently down over their noses — these were your hard characters, thorough men, who, when they wore their hats, wanted to wear them, and to wear them just as they had a mind to; there were those who had them set far over back — wide-awake men, who wanted a clear prospect; while careless men, who did not know, or care, how their hats sat, had them shaking about in all directions. The various hats, in fact, were quite a Shakespearean study."

  The episode of Eva St. Clare is truly beautiful and affecting—nay, for humor and pathos, a gem—and causes us the more to regret that such scenes should be introduced but to gild a pill of abolition gun-cotton, and to persuade innocent women and ignorant men to swallow it as good, honest medicine. The negro dialogue has been very generally commended, and we are willing to confess that the author knows quite as much about it as she does of slaves and slavery, but unfortunately very little of either. Where, in north or south, or in any other spot of earth, except, perhaps, upon the stage in the conventional "pert chambermaid" and "smart valet" scenes, could anything be found to resemble the following specimen of

COLORED-UPPER-TEN-DOM

   "Pray, Miss Benoir, may I be allowed to ask if those drops are for the ball, to-morrow night? They are certainly bewitching!"

   "I wonder, now, Mr. St. Clare, what the impudence of you men will come to!" said Jane, tossing her pretty head til the ear-drops twinkled again. "I shan't dance with you for a whole evening, if you go to asking me any more questions."

   "O, you couldn't be so cruel, now! I was just dying to know whether you would appear in your pink tarletane," said Adolph.

   "What is it?" said Rosa, a bright, piquant little quadroon who came skipping down stairs at this moment.

   "Why, Mr. St. Clare's so impudent!"

   "On my honor," said Adolph, "I'll leave it to Miss Rosa now."

   "I know he's always a saucy creature," said Rosa, poising herself on one of her little feet, and looking maliciously at Adolph. "He's always getting me so angry with him."

  With the incidents of the book, always excepting the episode of Eva, we have small wish to meddle. They are revolting and unjust, inasmuch as atrocities that may have been committed by some depraved wretch devoid of human feeling, are here set down and pictured forth, as if such things were of common and daily occurrence.

  We can assure Mrs. Stowe that Planters are neither in the habit of severing families, selling infants, or whipping their best hands to death.

  Such things have happened, as similar horrors occur at the north, and the wretches meet the same detestation, and generally a more speedy retribution than with us.

  A horrible punishment inflicted by a French woman of New Orleans upon her slave, resulted in the most serious riot that city has yet known. The woman escaped from the State, but every vestige of her property was destroyed by the indignant citizens, and she would have been hung could they but have laid hands upon her. It is the interest of planters to make their servants contented, to keep their families together, and


292

they make great personal sacrifices to avoid selling a slave. No one disputes that at times they are sold, generally for crime, which here would condemn them to prison, and sometimes—as with us—misfortune steps in, and with rude hand sunders all family ties. It is in the most northern of the slave States that the majority of the sales are made, and for this the unfortunate beings have the abolitionists alone to thank.
  We believe Mrs. Stowe to be a native of Massachusetts. If so, would she deem it just or honest were a Southern lady to write a book of the Old Bay State, and, by a parity of reasoning, take the recent Webster and Parkman horror, and hold it up as a common, every-day transaction? We cannot but regret the gusto with which our authoress describes all the incidents concerning the running off of the various negroes, first feigning a series of horrible persecutions in order to enlist the reader's feelings in their escape, and their accustoming us to scenes of violence, shooting down of persuers, &c., in the very spirit of the late Pennsylvania massacre.

  Slavery is bad enough, but for Heaven's sake, Mrs. Stowe! wife of one clergyman, daughter of another, and sister to half a dozen, respect the cloud of black cloth with which you are surrounded, and if you will write of such matters, give us plain unvarnished truth, and strive to advise us in our trouble—not to preach up bloodshed and massacre, for, by our present "Manual for Runaways," you but rivet the chains of those whom we firmly believe you honestly and truly desire to serve.

  We are told that northern men will take the book for a caricature, but the author appeals to the South to prove its truth. She also hopes she has done justice to "that nobility, generosity, and humanity, which, in many cases, characterize individuals at the South," and then proceeds to add that they are not common anywhere.

  On the eve of closing a book capable of producing infinite mischief—for it lacks neither wit nor talent, only truth—she very naturally appeals again to "the generous, noble-minded men and women of the South," you whose virtue, and purity, and magnanimity of character, &c., &c.

  Modesty! thy name is Beecher.



UNCLE TOM'S CABIN.
  Uncle Tom's Cabin; or, Life among the Lowly. By HARRIET BEECHER STOWE. Boston: John P. Jewett & Co. 1852. 2 vols. 12mo. pp. 312, 322.

  THIS is an American book. Our English critics will have no occasion to propose, as they so frequently do in treating our productions, some book of their own of which they can say that it is an imitation. Just now Miss Beecher rules in the book market. Even the two instalments of the "Bleak House," which the Messrs. Harpers, by an arrangement with Mr. Dickens, furnish so promptly and so cheaply, have not found so many readers as have hung over her pages. We shall not attempt any criticism of her work, for the perusal of it has left us in no mood for criticism. But we will express most warmly our admiration and gratitude, for we have been deeply impressed with the power and wisdom, the sound feeling and the acute judgement, with which the work is written, and we owe to Miss Beecher many earnest thanks. The true Christian philosophy which is practically applied by her to a subject of infinite difficulty, the skill shown in the delineation of character, the depth of sympathy manifested in the revelations of human hearts of a class not supposed by some to have hearts, the discretion with which she relieves a scene that is becoming too harrowing by turning upon it a cheerful light,—all these great qualities are exhibited by her in a most extraordinary manner. We will frankly say, that we know of no publication which promises to be more effective in the service of a holy but perilous work than this story of Miss Beecher's. If we could suppose that any number of our readers had not already perused, or at least secured, the volumes, we should be tempted to give them such an account of it as would hinder their reposing till they had planned to obtain it.



 SINCE “Jane Eyre,” no book has had so sudden and so great a success on this side of the Atlantic as “Uncle Tom's Cabin.” Everybody has read it, is reading, or is about to read it. And certainly it is one of the most remarkable literary productions of the time—an evident result of some of the highest attributes of the novel writer.

  As all the world knows, “Uncle Tom's Cabini” purports to be a picture of slavery as it now exists in the Southern States. It is an attempt to present the accidental and inevitable evils of slavery side by side with the practical advantages of the system in its paternal care of a long depressed, if not actually inferior race. It paints both slaveholder and slave, and none can doubt the intention of the author to deal justly with both, nothing extenuating and setting down naught in malice. The incidents are stated to be drawn from the personal experience of the writer or her most immediate friends, and we believe it is universally admitted that as a mere story the book is of intense interest.

  But we would here remark that some portions are very highly colored. The main facts stated, also, may have occurred somewhere or other, and at distant intervals of time; but the aggregation of so many rare horrors into two small volumes, produces a picture which we are happy to believe does not do justice to practical slavery in our southern states. In a word the effect of “Uncle Tom's Cabin,” as a whole, is grossly to exaggerate the actual evils of negro slavery in this country. As a didactic work, therefore, it should be swallowed with a considerable dose of allowance.

  But it is not as an instructive work, chiefly, that we now desire to regard it. As chroniclers of the literature of the day, we have much more to do with the conception and execution of books, as merely literary works, than with their sentiment or effect, although these latter may be all that make them practically important. Suffice it to say, then, that “Uncle Tom's Cabin,” even with our dose of allowance, is the finest picture yet painted of the abominable horrors of slavery, (bad enough at the best, and inevitably,) and that it is likely to do more for the cause of liberal abolitionism, than all that has been preached, said and sung, for a long time.

  But throwing aside the design or effect of the book under notice, and looking at it as a literary work merely, it must be confessed that if the incidents be exaggerated in themselves, or if they be so unduly crowded as to create an erroneous impression—admitting all this, we say—it must be owned that the incidents are treated artistically and with a master hand. The whole is truth-seeming if not true, and the whole book reads naturally and probably. It has nothing forced or awkward in its conduct.

  And yet the management of the tale is among its lesser interests. Both in dialogue and in character Mrs. Stowe has produced a fiction which can scarcely be excelled, in its peculiar line. To be sure, her negroes often pronounce a word properly, while a few sentences later on they mangle it horribly by the same people. But such inaccuracies are of little consequence, and are soon lost in the tide of humor, pathos and oddity that flows from the lips of the queer children of Africa. The dialogue, both of the whites and blacks, is naturalness itself, having nothing either of books or the theatre in its composition.

  And in respect to character-painting, “Uncle Tom's Cabin” may compare with any fiction of the day, English or American. It does not contain a figure that is not so vigorously sketched as to be fully individualized, and well able to stand alone. Every slave differs from his fellows in some essential features, and runs no risk of being mistaken for a sooty brother. Mrs. Shelby's "Sam," for instance, though visible in but a single scene, is as well drawn as if he were the sole hero of the fiction. Chloe the cook is not Dinah the cook, and neither of the young quadroon slaves of St. Clare could be mistaken for the quadroon George or his wife Eliza. The Quakers, also, who appear but once, are very nicely sketched, and Mrs. Shelby, who is scarcely seen but in a few chapters, at the beginning, is as perfect a portrait of an intelligent and right-hearted lady as we have lately seen. Topsy is a gem. Indeed, whether as regards black or white, everybody is hit off properly, and is nobody else but himself.

  But coming to the principal characters, we must say that Uncle Tom himself, St. Clare, Marie, Eva and Miss Ophelia are given with a truth to nature that fairly astonished us, in our utter ignorance that a female author lived who was capable of such painting. Eva, indeed, is not to be criticized. She stands with Little Nell and Little Paul—unnatural, it may be, as a child of man, but a creation of exquisite beauty, tenderness, intelligence and affection—an embodiment, in baby form, of all that is highest, holiest, and best in human nature.

  We hope the book in hand will be noticed by our leading reviews. As an American novel, merely, it deserves an elaborate critique, and we feel that our limited space does not do it justice.

  We should like to sustain our praise by several extracts, but are obliged to refer our readers to the glowing pages themselves.

  “Uncle Tom's Cabin,” as much as any novel we know of, is stamped on every page with genius. The author cannot touch a single incident without showing that she bears the sacred fire. How strong and wide may be the blaze we know not, but taking the present novel as the first effort in this line of writing, it is a wonderful composition, emanating from true genius, and produced with a nice tact and ingenuity, and a thorough knowledge of human nature, &c. The scene at Senator Bird's, the flight across the Ohio, the interview of George with the manufacturer, at the road side inn, the night-scene in the steamer—nay, many other passages—are not prominent portions of the work, but they are given in a masterly manner. Not one word in the book suggests mediocrity, whether the pictures of slavery please or displease. And the death of Eva! We have said that some chapters are beyond criticism—the reader will find them so. And with all the pathos and intensity of most of the story, there is no jot of dulness—no harping on one string. A vein of humor and drollery meanders through it, and one is often laughing with wet eyes.

  But brilliant as is “Uncle Tom's Cabin” as a literary work, it is yet more creditable to the author in another point of view. It proves that unlike most women and very many men, Mrs. Stowe has the high ability of looking on both sides of one question. With feelings and principles equally opposed to slavery, for its unavoidable evils as well as its accidental abuses, she is yet able to paint the slaveholder as he lives and moves, with no touch of bigotry or fanaticism. No southerner need be ashamed of the noble, kind and generous St. Clare, or the angel-child, his daughter.

  More than this, Mrs. Stowe has fairly presented the various arguments in favor of slavery, and the various feelings which exist in the mind of the south, in reference to this terrible evil. And, indeed, were it not for the incidental remarks in the book, one would be rather puzzled to say, from the dialogue alone, what were Mrs. Stowe's real sentiments. Both sides are presented with heart, soul and strength.

  The entire fiction is filled with instances of this peculiar power of the author to look on both sides of a question at once, and this (so called) masculine quality of mind is sustained by an exceeding ease in the management of details and the handling of masculine facts of all sorts. One wonders, indeed, where a lady could pick up so much stuff, and how she could acquire such free and easy manners in disposing of it. Everything is fish that comes to her net, and she is equally at home with saint or sinner, black or white, high or low. She never suffers any mock modesty, reverence or respect for any world prejudice whatever to stand in the way of truth of portraiture or naturalness of dialogue.

  “Uncle Tom's Cabin,” we believe, was first published in chapters, in the National Era. It there became known to a sufficient number of readers to give it a large circulation, when it appeared in book-form. Latterly, however, it has had an extraordinary run, and last week its sale had reached the large quantity of 3000 copies.

W. B. S.



FREDERICK DOUGLASS: DEAR SIR:— . . .

  I have recently read "Uncle Tom." What a book! It is, in its line, the wonder of wonders. How its descriptions stir the blood, indeed almost make it leap out of the heart! What delineations of characters—St. Clare and Legree, extremes of slaveholders. While the latter is a fit representative of the system of the pit, the former shows that not even slaveholding itself can blot out every whit of whatsoever is good in the human heart. Thank God for this little space wherein one vivifying ray may enter!

  Uncle Tom was a good soul, thoroughly and perfectly pious. Indeed, if any man had too much piety, Uncle Tom was that man. I confess to more of "total depravity." More shame to me, possibly, but nevertheless, such is the fact. My non-resistance is that of the Douglass, Parker, and Phillips school. I believe, as you do, that it is not light the slaveholder wants, but fire, and he ought to have it. I do not advocate revenge, but simply, resistance to tyrants, if need be, to the death.

  The religious conversation between the slave-traders, on the 102nd and 3rd pages, is a capital thing. Why do you not copy it?—How it tells upon the miserable spittle-licking religionists of the present day; who, as Tom Loker has it, are running up a bill all their lives with the devil, calculating to sneak out when pay time comes. Such religion is "p'ison mean,"—it is "dog meanness."

  The story of the Quadroon girl, second book, thirty-fourth chapter, exceeds anything that I have ever read, in all that is soul-searching and thrilling. Indeed, the book is marvellous for its dramatic power, and I do not wonder that cheap editions are now being called for throughout the Northern States.

  I have one regret, with regard to the book, and that is that the chapter favoring colonization was ever written. I do not, however, apprehend so much harm from it, as some others seem to anticipate. Many of the bad features of that chapter, are somewhat modified by the admission, on the 302nd page, of the right of the colored people to meet and mingle in this country—to rise by their individual worth, and without distinction of caste or color; and that they have not only the rights of the common men here, but more than these, the rights of an injured race for reparation; and still further, that those who deny this right to rise without distinction of caste or color, and in particular to rise here, are false to their own professed principles of human equality.

  I have no objection to the Christianization of Africa. God speed the missionaries who go thither for so high and holy purpose—Those also, be they white or colored, who go to build republics upon her shores, go to perform a work, great, grand, and glorious—God speed them also. Liberia is a pygmy, and cannot be more. Great men could as soon grow up and flourish in Greenland, as on that part of the Guinea coast, where these colonists have settled.

  As to the talk about African nationality, this is sheer nonsense if by African nationality is meant a nation composed entirely of pure Africans. Nations worthy of the name, are only produced by a fusion of races. If Americans had less prejudice, they could read history more clearly. Whence the Romans! The Magyars! The English! The Americans! The latter, at least, notwithstanding they roll up their eyes, and go into pretended fits, at the mere mention of amalgamation, are, of all the races, the most amalgamated under the sun; and, as a matter of course—the most energetic and powerful. Indeed, fusion of races seems to be a trait, distinctive of Americans. The shades of night scarce gather round them, ere they (the Americans) seek amalgamation with even the very race which they affect most to despise. Talk of the "instincts of nature"—the hypocrites!

  That the bona fide African race has peculiarities, I admit; and I admit, farther, that if these peculiarities are drawn out without intermixture, they will develop a civilization very good indeed; indeed, so good as to be almost good for nothing. The Saxons unmixed with the Romans, the Normans and the Danes were a clever people—no more—The feeble Asiatics unmixed with the Persians and the Hunns, are not Magyars. And the Jews, who are Jews still, excite next to no interest in the great world of science, literature and art. The plain truth is, God has made us of one blood, and thereby, to intermingle. We progress by adhering to this rule, we go backwards by its violation. Nations, there must be, but merely as conveniences, not to abrogate the great law of equal brotherhood.

  One word more, with regard to the book. It contains some happy hits at prejudice against color. These are timely. Abolitionists, by the hundreds, are not yet rid of this soul-harrowing and heart-belittling feeling, this "blasphemy against God," and "quarrel with Jehovah." It is so easy to talk, and so comparitively easy to practice within circles not exceedingly obnoxious to the community, that many delude themselves with the belief that they are at one with the doctrine of equal brotherhood, and are even christian, when their hearts are polluted, with a prejudice which is, beyond all question, a sin meaner than which none ever rankled in the freeman's heart. Oh, for more good, great men, and more great good men. A friend wrote me, not long since, and in his letter, wished that the Lord would let Gerrit Smith live to be as old as Methuselah. Did I believe that slavery and prejudice could exist in this land nine hundred years longer, I would second the wish, and not only that Gerrit Smith should live thus long, but Lyndon King, Beriah Green, Garrison, and such as these, who have bedwarfed themselves in their age, as Milton did in his, by keeping ahead so far. These are earth's noble spirits. Thank God, the time will come if not speedily, still surely, when men shall acknowledge, by word as in their inmost soul, that righteousness is true greatness, and that there is no glory but in living in accordance with principles which are just and holy, and true.

  I do not despair.

"Still achieving, still pursuing,
Learn to labor and to wait."
  Let us take this to our hearts, at least, that slavery is a national sin, and nations are not fixed facts, but are continually, though may be slowly, passing away.

  Faithfully yours,

WILLIAM G. ALLEN

  MC GRAWVILLE, N.Y., May 6, 1852.



'Uncle Tom's Cabin'
  The new book by Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, needs no particular description from us, for almost every body is reading it. Fifty thousand copies, it is said, have already been sold—a sufficient evidence of its popularity. We need only say, that it is a center shot at slavery; the hardest blow that has been struck yet. There was undoubtably a strong demand in the public mind, for something new and truthful on that subject; and this masterly book nobly satisfies the claim. As a work of fiction, the interest is well sustained throughout, and the subtle, delicious, pervading inspiration with which it is written, carries away the heart, without asking any leave. We rise from the reading of it with the refreshing consciousness of having supped with truth. There is no mistaking the effect 'Uncle Tom' will have; it must go far to ripen off the Anti-slavery revolution, both at the North and the South. Our readers will do well to procure and read it, if they have not done so.

  We have a remark or two to make, from our peculiar point of view. The emotions that are justly excited against slavery, by reading this book, ought not to stop there, but should be carried over with all their intensity, to the love of money. That is the real sin, where all our detestation is finally due. It is evidently the essence of slavery—the root where all its horrors grow. That is a vice which is as prevalent here at the North, as at the South; and its fruits here are in fact, as hideous, though less open and direct. We shall have an 'Uncle Tom' illustrating Northern institutions, as soon as heavenly society becomes near and clear enough to set off the contrast. In comparison with the unity and civilization of the Society, the best of our is like a Red River slave plantation, where selfishness, death, and the devil systematically work up their victims. G.



UNCLE TOM'S CABIN;
  UNCLE TOM'S CABIN; or Life among the Lowly. By HARRIET BEECHER STOWE. Boston and Cleveland: Jewett & Co. 2 vols. 12 mo. pp. 634.

  THE writer of fiction may have two objects in view: first, to produce a story which shall carry with it attraction and power as a work of art; second, to inculcate certain principles or doctrines. The first is accomplished by working up the materials which lie, in fancy or fact, at the bottom of the story into a life-like and attractive form. This requires thorough knowledge of human nature, great skill in the grouping of facts and incidents, and the power of easy narrative and vivid portrayal. The second object is accomplished by giving such a tinge to the narration of events or the portrayal of character, as will steadily and almost irresistibly lead the mind of the reader to the point of view desired by the writer; or by direct reflections of a moral or practical character upon facts related; or by certain expressive soliloquizings upon a denouement which has been effected. Of the book before us we may say that the authoress has attained the former of these objects, and evidently aims at the latter. That slavery as it exists in our country, by the diversity of treatment afforded to the slave, and the consequent attachments and aversions formed; by its development of reckless character in the person of the slave trader; by its merciless sundering of families and old ties; its attendent mixture of races, by which singular and gifted characters are often developed; its thrilling flights and bloody captures; furnishes the materials for a dramatic story of a high order, cannot be doubted by one at all familiar with the pathos, romance and heroism involved. These elements Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe has studied thoroughly and feelingly; and has wrought them into the tale of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" with great artistic skill. Every part of the story seems to bear the touches of a hand, guided by an acute understanding of human nature,—and especially colored nature. Of its absorbing power we have had regretful experience when we ventured to sit down to it, with an engagement awaiting the next hour. Its great peculiarity is its intensity. It seems to be written under the pressure of deep emotion,—and written as a woman only could write. It carries you along whether your judgement assents or not. With regard to the teachings which the story is meant to carry, we cannot class them justly with those of the ultra abolitionists. The better side of slavery is exhibited in a strong light. Full account is made of the legal difficulties under which conscientious slave owners labour. Eminent types of Christian character are developed both in master—or rather mistress—and slave. We observed nothing of the "Down with the government," "Down with the church," spirit. Nevertheless there is an uncompromising war waged with the system of slavery itself, and the late fugitive slave bill; and odium cast upon all their apologists. There is the frequent verdict of the emotions without consulting the judgement, so natural in a woman; the frequent puzzling appeal ad hominem, a species of sophistry so easy upon all great questions of the kind; and an occasional contemptuous fling at ministers and law-makers; which we are sorry to see, and which indicate a state of mind not exactly conservative. The influence of the book will be different upon different minds, according to the point of view. But if you wish to intersperse your reading with alternate laughing and weeping; if you wish to rise spent, and with a headache, to find that hours have sped unconscously as you turned its pages; and if you wish to study some of the most lovely types of Christian character which fiction has ever drawn; we advise you to take a peep into "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

  Chambersburg, Pa

C.



We have just finished the perusal of "Uncle Tom's Cabin," a work in two volumes, of more than three hundred pages each, which appeared originally in the National Era, in a succession of numbers, and has recently been re-published in its present form. The papers inform us that already, within eleven weeks of its re-publication, eighty thousand copies of it have been sold at the rate of a dollar to a dollar and a quarter per copy.

  The authoress of this work is HARRIET BEECHER STOWE, wife of Professor Stowe, and daughter of Dr. Beecher. She resided for many years, before and after marriage, in Cincinnati. "Uncle Tom's Cabin" is an anti-slavery novel. It is a caricature of slavery. It selects for description the most odious features of slavery—the escape and pursuit of fugitive slaves, the sale and separation of domestic slaves, the separation of husbands and wives, parents and children, brothers and sisters. It portrays the slaves of the story as more moral, intelligent, courageous, elegant and beautiful than their masters and mistresses; and where it concedes any of these qualities to the whites, it is to such only as are, even though slaveholders, opposed to slavery. Those in favor of slavery are slave-traders, slave-catchers, and the most weak, depraved, cruel and malignant of beings and demons.

  It is a little curious, that the two works on slavery that have attained the largest circulation since the Wilmot proviso was proposed, have both emanated from Cincinnati. The first, the lecture on "the North and the South," by the senior editor of this paper; the other, "Uncle Tom's Cabin." Of the lecture, about three hundred thousand copies were printed in pamphlets and newspapers. The novel will probably reach an equal circulation.

  It deserves to be considered that the defense of the South was a documentary argument, consisting chiefly of a collection of all the evidence on the subject which existed in an authentic shape. The attack on the South is a novel—a romance. The system of the South relies on fact—the sentiment of the North flies to fiction. This is significant. For some time before, the North, the practical, calculating, unimaginative North, claimed the facts. But since the appearance of "the North and the South," that pretension has almost been abandoned. We have been struck by the almost total abstinence of the northern press from all allusion to the results of the last census, when discussing the slavery question. That census has vindicated triumphantly the positions of the lecture on "the North and the South." Now, what is the value of a work of fiction in this controversy? What would be its value even if even incident it contains were founded on fact, as the writer intimates? Why, just nothing at all. Every man who is accustomed to reason is familiar with the artifice of a discomfitted antagonist. When refuted in argument, when overwhelmed with evidence, he insists on relating an anecdote, or telling a story—he retreats into fiction, or cites a particular instance—although everyone capable of reasoning knows that any proposition can be maintained, or any institution be overthrown, if the citation of particular incidents is accepted as argument. Government, society, law, civilization itself would fall in an hour, if we were to listen to the stories of the wrong and ruin that incidentally or exceptionally attend them. Do not murderers escape—are not the innocent sometimes put to death under the administration of criminal law? And yet, who would abolish it, even if hundreds of novels were written to illustrate its defects, or under pretence of exposing its enormity? Do we not find bad men with wealth, or good men in want—then why not have a novel to prove it and to insist on the abolition of property? Nay, there is religion itself, whose institutions cannot be divested of superstition, hypocrisy and fanaticism. How many romances could be written and have been written to illustrate these latter? Yet must we abolish religion?

  Mrs. Stowe may have seen, during her residence in Cincinnati, in the arrival and departure of emigrants, and in the trade and navigation of the Ohio and Mississippi, more families separated forever; she must know that from that single city more husbands, brothers, sons and fathers have gone voluntarily, as she calls it, from wives, mothers and children, and, in the pursuit of trade, met with untimely death by fevers and cholera on the river, or in the wilderness, leaving their families to suffer from want, their children to perish from neglect, than probably all who have been separated by the slave trade. Why don't she write a romance against emigration, and navigation and commerce? They are all permitted by our laws.

  But Mrs. Stowe complains that slavery gives to one man the power over another to do these things. Well, does not freedom, as she calls it? Cannot the landlord of Cincinnati turn out a family from his dwelling if unable to pay the rent? Cannot those who have food and raiment refuse them to such as are unable to buy? And does not Mrs. Stowe herself virtually do these very things? Suppose a poor man were to present himself to her and say, "Madam, I am a poor man with a large family, and we are destitute. And unless you prevent it, I shall be compelled to-morrow to hire myself as a hand on a flatboat to New Orleans, and besides exposing myself to the cholera and yellow fever, leave my wife in delicate health, my oldest daughter to the dangers of a large city without a protector, and my young ones to the diseases that depopulate the infancy of this place every summer. Now, I have read your novel, and I understand that you have already received a large fortune by the copy-right of it. Now, we are equals—except that I have none of your education, and that is not my fault. Yet somehow or other the laws of this freesoil State allow you to keep thousands of dollars in bank which you do not need, whilst I, for the want of a small part of it, am doomed to separation from all that I hold dear." We doubt whether Mrs. Stowe would recognize the cogency of this argument. But if she would, the laws of this country do not.



AMERICAN SLAVERY.

ENGLISH OPINION OF "UNCLE TOM'S CABIN."

Evils of Slavery—Method of its Removal— Dangers of Agitation—Colonization, &c.

From the London Times, Friday, Sept. 3.
  Twenty thousand copies of this book, according to its title page, are circulating among the American people, but three times as many thousands more has probably been issued from the American press since the title page was written. According to the Boston Traveller, the authoress has already received from her publishers the sum of "$10,300 as her copyright premium on three month's sales of the work—we believe the largest sum of money ever received by any author, either American or European, from the sale of a single work, in so short a period of time." Uncle Tom's Cabin is at every railway book-stall in England, and in every third traveller's hand. The book is a decided hit. It takes its place with "Pickwick," with Louis Napoleon, with the mendicant who suddenly discovers himself heir to 20,000 pounds a year, and, in fact, with every man whose good fortune it has been to fall asleep Nobody, and to awake in the morning an institution in the land. It is impossible not to feel respect for Uncle Tom's Cabin.

  The object of the work is revealed in the pictorial frontispiece. Mrs. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE is an abolitionist, and her book is a vehement and unrestrained argument in favor of her creed. She does not preach a sermon, for men are accustomed to nap and nod under the pulpit; she does not indite a philosophical discourse, for philosophy is exacting, is solicitous for truth, and scorns exaggeration. Nor does the lady condescend to survey her intricate subject in the capacity of a judge, for the judicial seat is fixed high above human passion, and she is in no temper to mount it. With the instinct of her sex, the clever authoress takes the shortest road to her purpose, and strikes at the convictions of her readers by assailing their hearts. She cannot hold the scales of justice with a steady hand, but she has learnt to perfection the craft of the advocate. Euclid, she well knows, is no child for effecting social revolutions, but an impassioned song may set a world in conflagration. Who shall deny to a true woman the use of her true weapons? We are content to warn the unsuspecting reader of their actual presence!

  Perhaps there is, after all, but one method of carrying on a crusade, and that unscrupulous fighting is the rightful warfare of the crusader. Mrs. STOWE having made up her mind that slavery is an abomination in the sight of God and man, thinks of nothing but the annihilation of the pernicious system. From the first page of her narrative to the last this idea is paramount in her mind, and colors all her drawing. That she will secure proselytes we take for granted; for it is in the nature of enthusiasm to inoculate with passionate zeal the strong-hearted as well as the feeble-minded. That she will convince the world of the purity of her own motives and of the hatefulness of the sin she denounces is equally clear; but that she will help, in the slightest degree, towards the removal of the gigantic evil that afflicts her soul is a point upon which we may express the greatest doubt; nay, it is a matter upon which, unfortunately, we have very little doubt at all, inasmuch as we are certain that the very readiest way to rivet the fetters of slavery in these critical times is to direct against all slaveholders in America the opprobrium and indignation which such works as Uncle Tom's Cabin are sure to excite.

  It is scarcely necessary to give in this place and in detail the plot of Mrs. STOWE'S striking production; for striking and meritorious it undoubtedly is. The lady has great skill in the delineation of character; her hand is vigorous and firm, her mastery over human feeling is unquestionable, and her humorous efforts are unimpeachable. We know of no book in which the negro character finds such successful interpretation, and appears so life-like and so fresh. The scenes in which the negroes are represented at their domestic labors or conversing with each other reveal a familiar acquaintance with negro life, and a capacity for displaying it that cannot be mistaken. The slang of "Ethiopian Serenaders" for once gives place to thoughts and language racy of the soil, and we need not say how refreshing it is to be separated for a season from the conventional Sambo of the modern stage. But even as an artist Mrs. STOWE is not faultless. She exhibits but ordinary ability in the construction of her story. Her narrative is rather a succession of detached scenes than a compact, well-jointed whole; and many of the scenes are tedious from their similarity and repetition. The reader is interested in the fate of two heroes, but their own streams of adventure never blend. The scene closes upon Uncle Tom to open upon GEORGE HARRIS, and it closes upon GEORGE HARRIS to open upon Uncle Tom—a style of proceeding well understood at the Adelphi Theatre, where the facetiae of WRIGHT must duly relieve the diablerie of O. SMITH,—but certainly not yet recognized in the classic realms of art.

  Uncle Tom is the slave of Mr. SHELBY, the proprietor of a certain estate in Kentucky which has fallen into disorder in consequence of the speculative habits of its owner, who, at the opening of the tale, is forced to part not only with Uncle Tom, but with a young quadroon woman named ELIZA, the servant of Mrs. SHELBY, and the wife of GEORGE HARRIS, slave upon a neighboring estate. Uncle Tom is carried off Mr. SHELBY'S estate by the new purchaser, one Mr. HALY; but ELIZA, dreading separation from her husband and her subsequent fate, takes flight with her child, and is ultimately joined to her mate on the free-soil of Canada. The two volumes of which the book is made up are occupied, as we have hinted, with the adventures of Uncle Tom and GEORGE HARRIS, until the former dies a Christian martyr, and the latter becomes a model liberator in the black Republic of Liberia.

  Uncle Tom is a paragon of virtue. He is more than mortal in his powers of endurance, in his devotion, in his self-denial, in his Christian profession and practice, and in his abhorrence of spirituous liquors. When Mr. HALY in his turn sold Tom to a new master, the good-natured owner informed his new acquisition that he would make him "coachy" on condition that he would not get drunk more than once a week, unless in cases of emergency, whereupon "Tom looked surprised and rather hurt, and said, 'I never drink, Mas'r.'" This may be taken as a keynote to the tune Tom is eternally playing for our edification and moral improvement. He always "looks surprised and rather hurt" on such occasions. He is described as a fine, powerful negro, walking through the world with a Bible in his hands, and virtuous indignation on his lips, both ready to be called in requisition on the slightest provocation, in season and out of season, at work or at play, by your leave or without it, in sorrow or in joy, for the benefit of his superiors or for the castigation of his equals. A prominent fault of this production is indicated by these facts. In her very eagerness to accomplish her amiable intention, Mrs. STOWE ludicrously stumbles and falls very far short of her object. She should surely have contented herself with proving the infamy of the slave system, and not been tempted to establish the superiority of the African nature over that of the Anglo-Saxon and every other known race. We have read some novels in our time, and occupied not a few precious hours in the proceedings of their heroines and heroes; but we can scarcely remember ever to have encountered either gentle knight or gentler dame to whom we could not easily have brought home the imputation of human frailty. The mark of the first fall has been there, though the hues might be of the faintest. Now, if Adam, before his decline, had been a black, as some ethnologists still insist, he could not possibly have been more thoroughly without flaw than Uncle Tom. In him the said mark is eradicated once and forever. He represents in his person the only well authenticated instance we know, in modern times, of that laudable principle, in virtue of which a man presents his left cheek to be smitten after his first has been slapped. The more you "larrup" Uncle Tom the more he blesses you; the greater the bodily agony the more intense becomes his spiritual delight. The more he ought to complain, the more he doesn't; the less he has cause for taking a pleasant view of life and human dealings, the less he finds reason to repine; and his particular sentiments are all to match. Tom has reason to believe that Mr. Shelby will not wish him "good by" before he starts off for the south with Mr. Haly. "That ar hurt me more than sellin, it did." Tom's wife is heart-broken at his departure, and naturally reproaches Mr. Shelby for turning him into money. Tom, always superior to human nature, tenderly rebukes her. "I'll tell ye, Chloe, it goes agin me to hear one word agin Mas'r. Wasn't he put into my arms a baby? It's natur I should think a heap of him." Tom "had every facility and temptation to dishonesty," but his "simplicity of nature was impregnable," and he was never known to make a mistake in his life, although "trusted to an unlimited extent by a careless master, who handed him a bill without looking at it, and pocketed the change without counting it." What have we been doing all these years, during which at a great cost of time, labour, and money, we have despatched missionary after missionary to the heathen, but neglected needful labors at home in order to effect works of supererogation abroad? Before we export another white enthusiast from Exeter-hall, let us import a dozen or two blacks to teach Exeter-hall its most obvious Christian duties. If Mrs. STOWE'S portraiture is correct, and if Uncle Tom is a type of a class, we deliberately assert that we have nothing more to communicate to the negro, but everything to learn from his profession and practice. No wonder that Tom works miracles by his example. Such sudden conversions from brutality to humility, from glaring infidelity to the most childlike belief, as are presented to our admiration in these volumes, have never been wrought on earth since the days of the Apostles. One of the best sketches in the book is that of a little black imp, by name TOPSY, who loves lying for the sake of lying, who is more mischievous than a monkey, and in all respects as ignorant; yet she has hardly time to remove from her soul the rubbish accumulated there from her birth, and to prepare her mind for the reception of the most practical truths, before—without any sufficient reason—"a ray of real belief, a ray of heavenly love, penetrates the darkness of her heathen soul," and enables her in due time to accept the responsible appointment of missionary to a station in Africa. Uncle Tom not only converts by his arguments Mr. ST. CLARE, his master in New Orleans, who is a gentleman, a scholar, a philosopher, and as shrewd a hand in a discussion as you are ever likely to encounter, but positively redeems in a moment from utter savageness and the lowest degradation wretches in whom the sense of feeling is extinct, and from whom we have been taught, until Tom took them in hand, to recoil in horror. It is no respect for religion that we feel when Tom, beaten almost to death by his owner, is visited by a poor woman, who offers him water to relieve his mortal pains, but who is quietly informed by the sufferer that a chapter from the Bible is better than drink. Well-fed and comfortably-housed hypocrisy is apt to deliver itself of such utterances, but certainly not true piety in its hours of anguish and physical extremity. A quadroon slave called CASSY is introduced to the reader under the most painful of circumstances. Her career has been one of compelled vice until her spirit has finally acquired a wild and positively fiendish character. You read the authoress's vivid descriptions, you note the creature's conduct, and you are convinced that it will take years to restore human tenderness to that bruised soul, to say nothing of belief in Heaven and its solemn and mysterious promises. But you err! In an instant, and most miraculously, "the long winter of despair, the ice of years gives way, and the dark despairing woman weeps and prays." "She too yields at once, and with her whole soul, to every good influence, and becomes a devout and tender Christian." This monstrous instance is outdone by another. SAMBO and QUIMBO are two black rascals, who have been trained "in savageness and brutality as systematically as bull-dogs, and, by long practice in hardness and cruelty, have brought their whole nature to about the same range of capacities." When we first behold them we are told to mark "their coarse, dark, heavy features; their great eyes, rolling enviously on each other; their barbarous, guttural, half-brute intonation; their dilapidated garments fluttering in the wind," and to remember the apt illustration before us "of the fact that brutal men are lower even than animals." So long as these worthies are on the scene, their actions correspond exactly with their appearance, and with the account given of their canine bringing up; they go on from bad to worse, and at the worst, when their restitution to humanity seems utterly and forever hopeless, then it is that Tom "pours forth a few energetic sentences of that wondrous One,—his life, his death, his everlasting presence and power to save,"—that "they weep—both the two savage men,"—that Tom cries to Heaven to give him two more souls, and that the prayer is immediately and satisfactorily answered by their happy and most astounding conversion. Surely there is something more real and substantial in Mrs. STOWE'S volumes to account for their extraordinary popularity than such absolute and audacious trash. It would be blasphemy to believe in such revelations, and common sense and a feeling of what is due to our better nature will assuredly prevent all by the veriest fanatics from accepting as truth such exaggerated and unholy fables.

  An error, almost as fatal as the one adverted to, is committed by our authoress in the pains she takes to paint her negroes, mulattoes, and quadroons, in the very whitest white, while she is equally careful to disfigure her whites with the very blackest black. The worst negroes are ultimately taken to Heaven, but few of the fair colored are warranted, living or dying, without blemish. The case of Slavery is submitted in this work, it is true, to the reader's enlightened attention, but before his judgment can calmly set itself to work, his sympathies are thoroughly secured by a lady who takes good care not to let them loose again. The very first scene of the book introduces us to an offensive dealer in slaves and to a slave proprietor without feeling, and both are bargaining for the disposal of slaves who, in personal appearance and in moral attainments, are not to be surpassed on either side of the Atlantic. What becomes of the judgment under such an ordeal, if the intellect be weak and the heart be strong? We are not ignorant of the mode in which great morals are enforced at our minor theatres, and of the means there taken to impress the imagination and to instruct the intellect by help of the domestic melodrama. A villain on the Surrey side of the water is a villain indeed, and a persecuted heroine is persecuted beyond endurance in any other place. It is very easy to educe startling lessons from a dramatic work, as it is easy enough for an artist to delineate fear by painting a man with staring eyes, open mouth, and hair on end. Truth, however, demands more delicate dealing, and art that would interpret truth must watch the harmonies of Nature, which charms not by great "effects," but by her blended symmetry and grace, by her logical and enforced developments. Did we know nothing of the subject treated by Mrs. STOWE, we confess that we should hesitate before accepting much of her coin as sterling metal. Her quadroon girl is all too like the applauded slave of the Victoria. "The rich, full, dark eye, with its long lashes—the ripples of silky black hair, the delicately-formed hand and trim foot and ankle, the dress of the neatest possible fit, which set off to advantage her finely-moulded shape, the peculiar air of refinement, the softness of voice and manner," are insisted upon with a pertinacity which we look for in vain when we come face-to-face with the less fortunately endowed specimens of the Anglo-Saxon race. Her husband, GEORGE, a mulatto, being rather blacker than her herself, is painted, according to rule, in still brighter colors. He is "possessed of a handsome person and pleasing manners," is "a general favorite in the factory" where he works, "his adroitness and ingenuity cause him to be considered the first hand in the place," and he has "invented a machine for the cleaning of hemp, which displays quite as much mechanical genius as WHITNEY'S cotton-gin." During his flight to Canada GEORGE disguises himself. Being informed of the circumstance, we are introduced to an hotel in Kentucky. "It was late in a drizzly afternoon that a traveller alighted at the door. He was very tall, with a dark Spanish complexion, fine expressive black eyes, and close curling hair, also of a glossy blackness. His well-formed aquiline nose, straight thin lips, and the admirable contour of his finely formed limbs, impressed the whole company instantly with the idea of something uncommon." Who can the distinguished stranger be but M. LEMAITRE or Mr. WALLACK, representing for our approval and delight George Harris, the runaway mulatto? If we have any doubt it is removed at once when we are that the said George being addressed by a stranger at the hotel "stood up like a rock and put out his hand with the air of a prince," just as we have seen LEMAITRE do it as Le Docteur Noire.—An indifferent advocate may make one of two mistakes. He may understate his client's case, or he may overstate it. As able as she is, Mrs. STOWE has committed the latter fault, and will suffer in the minds of the judicious from the female error. With so good a cause it is a pity that her honest zeal should have outrun discretion.

  The gravest fault of the book has, however, to be mentioned. Its object is to abolish slavery. Its effect will be to render slavery more difficult than ever of abolishment. Its popularity constitutes its greatest difficulty. It will keep ill-blood at boiling-point, and irritate instead of pacifying those whose proceedings Mrs. STOWE is anxious to influence on behalf of humanity. "Uncle Tom's Cabin" was not required to convince the haters of slavery of the abomination of the "institution;" of all books, it is the least calculated to weigh with those whose prejudices in favor of slavery have yet to be overcome, and whose interests are involved in the perpetuation of the system. If slavery is to cease in America, and if the people of the United States, who fought and bled for their liberty and nobly won it, are to remove the disgrace that attaches to them for forging chains for others which they will not tolerate on their own limbs, the work of enfranchisement must be a movement, not forced upon slaveowners, but voluntarily undertaken, accepted and carried out by the whole community.

  There is no federal law which can compel the Slave States to resign the "property" which they hold. The States of the South are as free to maintain slavery as are the States of the North to rid themselves of the scandal. Let the attempt be made imperiously and violently to dictate to the South, and from that hour the Union is at an end. We are aware that to the mind of the "philanthropist" the alternative brings no alarm, but to the rational thinkers, to the statesman, and to all men interested in the world's progress, the disruption of the bond that holds the American states together is fraught with calamity, with which the present evil of slavery—a system destined sooner or later to fall to pieces under the weight of public opinion and its own infamy—bears no sensible comparison. The writer of Uncle Tom's Cabin and similar well-disposed authors have yet to learn that to excite the passions of their readers in favor of their philanthropic schemes is the very worst mode of getting rid of a difficulty, which, whoever may be to blame for its existence, is part and parcel of the whole social organization of a large proportion of the States, and cannot be forcibly removed without instant anarchy, and all its accompanying mischief.

  Would Mrs. STOWE have liberty proclaimed throughout the States at the present moment? For her own sake, and for the sake of her countrymen, we hope not. We do not believe that the blacks in America are prepared for sudden emancipation; and, if they are, we are certain that the whites are wholly incapable of appreciating the blessing. Sir CHARLES LYELL, in his Second Visit to the United States of North America, very properly remarks that the fanaticism of Abolitionists constitutes one difficulty in the way of emancipation, the prejudices of Perpetuatists another, but that the jealousy of an unscrupulous Democracy is a far more terrible obstacle than either. In the same spirit, the writer of a remarkable article in the North American Review last year observed, that "the whites need to go through a training for freedom scarcely less than the blacks, the master being as much fettered to the one end of the chain as the slave to the other." All impartial witnesses speak to the same effect. Mr. FEATHERSTONEHAUGH, no lover of slavery, who passed years in the United States, declares that slavery is a positive blessing to every negro who would receive nothing but liberty from his owner. For, in truth, what is liberty worth to the possessor if it be accompanied with social degradation or the worst description? The manumitted slaves of Jamaica are, in the sight of the law, in the estimation of their fellows, and in the eye of God, equals with those whose actual "property" they were the other day. Importance no longer attaches to complexion in that Island. The white and colored people intermarry, colored people hold responsible offices, and are received as guests at the Governor's table. An American who visited Jamaica in 1850 states that—

"At the Surrey Assizes, where Sir JOSHUA ROWE presided, two colored lawyers were sitting at the Barrister's tale, and of the Jury all but three were colored. Seven-tenths of the whole police force of the Island, amounting to about 800 men, were estimated to be colored. In the Legislative Assembly, composed of from 48 to 50 members, ten or a dozen were colored; and the Public Printers of the Legislature, who were also Editors of the leading Government paper, were both colored men."
  Compare this salutary state of things with the certain doom of the negro suddenly emancipated by his American master! The democratic horror of black blood in the United States knows no bounds. Sir CHARLES LYELL has a pathetic account of a young girl he met on board a steamer in America, and who was rudely summoned from the dinner table because—though free as himself—she had presumed—having one streak of negro blood in her otherwise unsullied veins—to sit at a board with a party of pure whites. He had previously been shocked by remarking that no colored man, slave or freeman, how far soever removed from the negro stock, however respectable his appearance, however cultivated his mind, was allowed to take his meals while the very meanest white on board had yet to satisfy his hunger. What avail the pathetic appeals and painful incidents, the passionate denunciations with which Uncle Tom's Cabin abounds in the teeth of such facts as these? Let it be borne in mind that this instinctive and openly proclaimed physical disgust and abhorrence of the negro race is not peculiar to the South, but is even more strongly evident in the North; but it is no offensive characteristic of the Slaveowner, but is a vice equally rampant in the self-satisfied and complacent soul of the agitating abolitionist. Blacks are not stocks or stones; we know them to be capable of high civilization, and to be susceptible of the noblest emotions. Improved public opinion all over the world is doing much for them, and education and religion are doing still more. They are not unconscious of their social inferiority in Republican America, for they are hourly made to feel it. Imagine them liberated to-morrow in those portions of the United States where they outnumber the whites, and where they would have only to raise their liberated hands in order to strike down the traditional enemies of their race, their once tyrannical owners, their always contemptuous social superiors. Hate begets hate, and a war of races secures the rapid deterioration and decline of all the combatants. We may well shrink before rashly inviting so bloody and disastrous a conflict.

  And be it stated to the credit of the slaveowners of the South, that they are fully alive to the danger of the portentous struggle, and have of late years shown no indisposition to help in their own emancipation as well as in that of the slave, provided they may only escape the dire catastrophe we speak of. It is certain that a large class of slaveowners in the South are most desirous to relieve their soil of the stain and inconvenience of Slavery, if the tremendous step can be taken with safety to all parties concerned in the act of liberation. The efforts made in the South to improve the condition of the slave, show at least that humanity is not dead in the bosoms of the proprietors. Mrs. STOWE has certainly not done justice to this branch of the subject. Horrors in connection with slavery—itself a horror—unquestionably exist; but all accounts—save her own, and those of writers actuated by her extreme views—concur in describing the general condition of the Southern slave as one of comparative happiness and comfort, such as many a free man in the United Kingdom might regard with envy. One authority on this point is too important to be overlooked. In the year 1842, a Scotch weaver, named WILLIAM THOMSON, traveled through the Southern States. He supported himself on his way by manual labor; he mixed with the humblest classes, black and white, and on his return home he published an account of his journeyings. He had quitted Scotland a sworn hater of slave proprietors, but he confessed that experience had modified his views on this subject to a considerable degree. He had witnessed Slavery in most of the slaveholding States; he had lived for weeks among negroes in cotton plantations, and he asserted that he had never beheld one-fifth of the real suffering that he had seen among the laboring poor in England. Nay, more, he declared:

"That the members of the same family of negroes are not so much scattered as are those of the workingmen in Scotland, whose necessities compel them to separate at an age when the American slave is running about gathering health and strength."
  Ten years have not increased the hardships of the Southern slave. During that period colonization has come to his relief—education has, legally or illegally, found its way to his cabin, and Christianity has added spiritual consolations to his allowed, admitted physical enjoyments. It has been justly said that to those men of the South who have done their best for the negro under the institution of slavery must we look for any great effort in favor of emancipation, and they who are best acquainted with the progress of events in those parts declare that at this moment "there are powerful and irresistible influences at work in a large part of the slave States tending towards the abolition of slavery within these boundaries."

  We can well believe it. The world is working its way towards liberty, and the blacks will not be left behind in the onward march. Since the adoption of the American Constitution, seven States have voluntarily abolished Slavery. When that Constitution was proclaimed there was scarcely a free black in the country. According to the last census, the free blacks amount to 418,183, and of these 233,691 are blacks of the South, liberated by their owners, and not by the force of law. We cannot shut our eyes to these facts. Neither can we deny that, desirable as negro emancipation may be in the United States, abolition must be the result of growth, not of revolution, must be patiently wrought out by means of the American Constitution, and not in bitter spite of it. America cannot for any time resist the enlightened spirit of our age, and it is manifestly her interest to adapt her institutions to its temper. That she will eventually do so if she be not a divided household—if the South be not goaded to illiberality by the North—if public writers deal with the matter in the spirit of conciliation, justice, charity, and truth, we will not permit ourselves to doubt. That she is alive to the necessities of the age is manifest from the circumstance that, for the last four years, she has been busy in preparing the way for emancipation by a method that has not failed in older countries to remove national troubles almost as intolerable as that of Slavery itself. We have learnt to believe that the Old World is to be saved and renewed by means of emigration. Who shall say that the New World—in visible danger from the presence of a dark inheritance bequeathed to it by Europe—shall not be rescued by the same providential means? The negro colony of Liberia, established by the United States, extends along the Western coast of Africa, a distance of more than 500 miles. The civilized black population amounts to 8,000 souls. The heathen population is over 200,000. The soil of the colony is fertile, its exports are daily increasing, it has already entered into diplomatic relations with Great Britain and France. A Government is established, which might have been framed by the whitest skins; 2,000 communicants are in connection with its churches; 1,500 children attend its Sabbath schools. Education has become—would that it were so here—a national obligation; and the work of instruction and conversion is carried on by educated negroes among their brethren, who cannot fail to appreciate the service and accept the blessing. The refuge afforded by Liberia for the gradual reception of the manumitted and civilized slaves of the United States, we hold to be the most promising element in the question, upon the tranquil settlement of which the happiness and political existence of the United States depend. It will enable America to save herself, and to achieve a work far nobler than that of winning her own political independence. The civilization of Africa hangs largely upon her wisdom. A quarter of the world may be Christianized by the act which enables America to perform the first of Christian duties. We have said that the process of liberation is going on, and that we are convinced the South, in its own interests, will not be laggard in the labor. Liberia and similar spots on the earth's surface proffer aid to the South, which cannot be rejected with safety. That the aid may be accepted with alacrity and good heart, let us have no more Uncle Tom's Cabins engendering ill-will, keeping up bad blood, and rendering well-disposed, humane, but critically placed men their own enemies and the stumbling blocks to civilization and to the spread of glad tidings from Heaven.



Notices of New Works
  Macaulay, in the opening paragraph of his Essay on the Life of Addison, discusses the question whether lady authors should or should not be dealt with according to strict critical justice. The gallant reviewer gives as his opinion, that while lady writers should be not permitted to teach "inaccurate history or unsound philosophy" with impunity, it were well that critics should so far recognize the immunities of the sex as to blunt the edge of their severity towards the offenders. And he instances, as pertinent to the critic's position, the case of the Knight, who being compelled by duty to keep the lists against Bradamante, was fain, before the combat commenced, to exchange Balisarda for a lighter and less fatal weapon, with which, however, he fought well and successfully.

  For ourselves, we are free to say that we quite coincide with Mr. Macaulay, in the exact terms of his proposition. But we beg to make a distinction between lady writers and female writers. We could not find it in our hearts to visit the dulness or ignorance of a well-meaning lady with the rigorous discipline which it is necessary to inflict upon male dunces or blockheads. But where a writer of the softer sex manifests, in her productions, a shameless disregard to truth and of those amenities which so peculiarly belong to her sphere of life, we hold that she has forfeited the claim to be considered a lady, and with that claim all exemption from the utmost stringency of critical punishment. It will not indeed suffice, to work this forfeiture, that she merely step beyond the limits of female delicacy. A Joan of Arc, unsexed though she be, in complete armour, mounted en chevalier, and battling for the defense of her native land, might, perhaps come within the rule of knightly courtesy. But the Thalestris of Billingsgate, coarse of speech and strong of arm, hurling unwomanly oaths and unwomanly blows at whom she chooses to assail, would probably be met by a male opponent, (if he could not run away from her,) in a very different manner.

  Mrs. Stowe—to whose work of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" we now propose to devote ourselves—is neither one nor the other of the characters we have described. She is not a Joan of Arc. She is not a fishwoman. She is something much less noble than the Gallic heroine; she is certainly a much more refined person than the virago of the Thames. Yet with all her cultivation she has placed herself without the pale of kindly treatment at the hands of Southern criticism. Possessed of a happy faculty of description, an easy and natural style, an uncommon command of pathos and considerable dramatic skill, she might, in the legitimate exercise of such talents, have done much to enrich the literature of America, and to gladden and elevate her fellow beings. But she has chosen to employ her pen for purposes of a less worthy nature. She has volunteered officiously to intermeddle with things which concern her not—to libel and vilify a people from among whom have gone forth some of the noblest men that have adorned the race—to foment heart-burnings and unappeasable hatred between brethren of a common country, the joint heirs of that country's glory—to sow, in this blooming garden of freedom, the seeds of strife and violence and all direful contentions. Perhaps, indeed, she might declare that such was not her design—that she wished, by the work now under consideration, to persuade us the horrible guilt of Slavery, and with the kindest feelings for us as brethren, to teach us that our constitution and laws are repugnant to every sentiment of humanity. We know that among other novel doctrines in vogue in the land of Mrs. Stowe's nativity—the pleasant land of New England—which we are old-fashioned enough to condemn, is one which would place woman on a footing of political equality with man, and causing her to look beyond the office for which she was created—the high and holy office of maternity—would engage her in the administration of public affairs; thus handing over the State to the perilous protection of diaper diplomatists and wet-nurse politicians. Mrs. Stowe, we believe, belongs to this school of Women's Rights, and on this ground she may assert her prerogative to teach us how wicked are we ourselves and the Constitution under which we live. But such a claim is in direct conflict with the letter of scripture, as we find it recorded in the second chapter of the First Epistle to Timothy—
  "Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection.

  "But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence."

  But whatever her designs may have been, it is very certain that she has shockingly traduced the slaveholding society of the United States, and we desire to be understood as acting entirely on the defensive, when we proceed to expose the miserable misrepresentations of her story. We shall be strongly tempted, in the prosecution of this task, to make use, now and then, of that terse, expressive, little Saxon monosyllable which conventionality has properly judged inadmissable in debate, yet we trust we shall be able to overcome the temptation, and in the very torrent and tempest of our wrath, (while declining to "carry the war into Africa,") to "acquire and beget a temperance which may give it smoothness."

  While we deem in quite unnecessary, in this place, to lay before our readers in detail the plot of "Uncle Tom's Cabin," still we shall best accomplish our purpose by running over the leading incidents of the novel. But even this will not be the easiest thing in the world. We have given Mrs. Stowe credit for dramatic skill. Yet it will be seen that as a dramatist she is, by no means, without some glaring faults. It is a rule of art, (judged by which Fielding's Tom Jones has been pronounced by the best critics to be almost perfect,) that a work of fiction should be so joined together that every passage and incident should contribute to bring about an inevitable though unexpected catastrophe. Mrs. Stowe's events have many of them no connection with each other whatever. She has two principal characters, for whom the reader's sympathy is enlisted, whose paths never lie within a thousand miles of each other. Whenever she brings Uncle Tom forward, George Harris is moved backward: whenever she entertains us with George Harris, Uncle Tom's rights as a hero are in abeyance, wherein Mrs. Stowe reminds us of the ventriloquist vaudevilles of the facetious Mr. Love, who, individually representing the entire dramatis personae, is compelled to withdraw as Captain Cutandthrust, before he can fascinate his audience with Miss Matilda Die-away. Perhaps, indeed, Mrs. Stowe has proceeded upon the principle laid down by Puff in the Critic—

  "O Lord, yes; ever while you live have two plots to your tragedy. The grand point in managing them is only to let your under-plot have as little connection with your main plot as possible."

  The tale opens with a dialogue between a Kentucky planter, Mr. Shelby, and a negro-trader called Haley, at the dinner-table of the former at his plantation residence. Haley holds Mr. Shelby's I. O. U. for a considerable amount which he is unable to settle, and takes advantage of this indebtedness to compel Mr. Shelby to part with two of his slaves—Uncle Tom, his general manager, and a little mulatto boy, the child of Eliza Harris, Mrs. Shelby's maid. Eliza is the wife of George Harris, the Admirable Crichton of the book. Being determined not to see her child sold away from her, she runs off with it it in it in the night, and after many adventures, (one of which is the passage of the Ohio River on the ice, with a leap across its unfrozen channel,) finally reaches the non-slaveholding territory. Before following her, we must pause to notice two points it in the narrative. The first is the conduct which the authoress ascribes to Mrs. Shelby it in conniving at Eliza's escape—conduct which is held up to us as, it in the highest degree, commendable. Now, the reader must know that Mr. Shelby has acquainted his wife with the fact that Haley has become the purchaser of the slaves. The good faith of Mr. Shelby, therefore, was pledged, and his wife knew it, to the fulfillment of this portion of the contract by putting Haley it in possession of them. And however painful to the feelings of that kind and excellent lady might have been the separation, the obedience due to her husband, and the regard she was bound to cherish for his word, should have restrained her from throwing any obstacle it in the way of the performance of his engagements, much more from assisting it in the escape of a valuable servant. But at this point the authoress brings the "Higher Law" to bear upon Mrs. Shelby's line of duty, and as obedience to one's husband is not recognized by the new school of Woman's Rights, perhaps there is no departure herein from ethical consistency. The second point to which we wish to refer, is the utter indifference to fact and probability displayed it in a conversation which the authoress details between the men who become engaged it in the pursuit of Eliza. Haley, having given chase, after some delay at the Shelby mansion, comes up with Eliza just it in time to see her, with the child it in her arms, brave the dangers of the ice-bound Ohio and gain the opposite bank it in safety. Chagrined at this frustration of his plans, he resorts to brandy-and-water at the nearest tavern, where he finds two old acquaintances quite as beastly and devilish as himself, who are also negro-traders. Haley proposes to them to assist him it in retaking Eliza. The matter is debated at length and a bargain is struck. The parties agree that it in case of a re-capture, the child is to be surrendered to Haley, who shall thereupon interpose no objection to the kidnapping of Eliza by his comrades—the said Haley paying down the just and full sum of Fifty Dollars it in advance, as an indemnity against loss it in the event of failure. The discussion reeks with bad brandy and the fumes of tobacco, and is therefore not well-suited to quotation, but one passage of it must be given:

  "Marks had got from his pocket a greasy pocketbook, and taking a long paper from thence, he sat down, and fixing his keen black eyes on it, began mumbling over its contents: 'Barnes—Shelby County—boy Jim, three hundred dollars for him, dead or alive.

  "'Edwards—Dick and Lucy—man and wife, six hundred dollars; wench Polly and two children—six hundred for her or her head.'

  "'I'm jest a runnin' over our business, to see if we can take up this yer handily. Loker,' he said, after a pause, 'we must set Adams and Springer on the track of these yer; they've been booked some time.'

  "'They'll charge too much,' said Tom.

  "'I'll manage that ar; they 's young in the business, and must spect to work cheap,' said Marks, as he continued to read. 'Ther's three on 'em easy cases, 'cause all you've got to do is to shoot 'em, or swear they is shot; they couldn't, of course, charge much for that.'"
  The reader will observe that two charges against the South are involved in this precious discourse—one, that it is the habit of Southern masters to offer a reward with the alternative of "dead or alive," for their fugitive slaves, and the other, that it is usual for pursuers to shoot them. Indeed, we are led to infer that as the shooting is the easier mode of obtaining the reward, it is the more frequently employed in such cases. Now, when a Southern master offers a reward for his runaway slave, it is because he has lost a certain amount of property, represented by the negro, which he wishes to recover. To allege then that the owner, so deprived of his property, would be willing to pay an extravagant sum of money to the man who should place that property forever beyond the possibility of recovery, is so manifestly absurd and preposterous, that Mrs. Stowe will not find many readers weak enough to believe it, even in New England. What man of Vermont, having an ox or an ass that had gone astray, would forthwith offer half the full value of the animal, not for the carcass which might be turned to some useful purpose, but for the unavailing satisfaction of its head? Yet are the two cases exactly parallel. With regard to the assumption that men are permitted to go about, at the South, with double-barrelled guns, shooting down runaway negroes in preference to apprehending them, we can only say that it is as wicked and wilful as it is ridiculous. Such Thugs there may have been as Marks and Loker, who have killed negroes in this unprovoked manner, but if they have escaped the gallows, they are probably to be found within the walls of our State Penitentiaries where they are comfortably provided for at public expense. The laws of the Southern States, which are designed, as in all good governments, for the protection of persons and property, have not been so loosely framed as to fail of their object where person and property are one.*

  Recur we now to the fugitives—Eliza and her child. The next thing we hear of them, they are seeking shelter and assistance at the house of Mr. Byrd, (or perhaps we should say Mrs. Byrd, as this lady seems to rule the household as completely as any Women's Rights Orator could desire,) where they are hospitably welcomed and tenderly cared for. Just before their arrival, the conjugal Byrds had been twittering in an argumentative duet concerning the matter of lending "aid and comfort" to runaway negroes, during which the feathers of the female had been somewhat ruffled, for her loving mate had but lately flown into the nest from the noisy aviary, the Legislature of Ohio, where as a Byrd of some consequence, he had lent his voice in the Senate to the passage of a Bill "forbidding people to give meat and drink to those poor colored folks that come along." Mrs. Stowe takes great delight in showing us here how the Senator's stern convictions of duty were melted away, like the wax that sustained the pinions of Icarus, by the feelings of compassion that kindled in his gentle bosom at the story of Eliza's wrongs, and how the worthy and Honorable Byrd, maker of laws, proceeded to help the fugitives to a place of greater safety, by driving them at night over a rough road to a Quaker settlement some miles distant. The reader who will reflect upon the matter a single moment, must see that the Senator is applauded for what in old times was considered one of the worst of offenses—the violation of his oath. For in assuming his legislative duties he had solemnly sworn to support the Constitution of the United States, and his conduct is in direct conflict with that sacred obligation. But to writers like Mrs. Stowe is reserved the casuistical talent, and we may add, the portentous impudence, of making perjury graceful and good, and of founding upon it the claim to an integrity approaching the perfect holiness of the saints.

  To keep up with the story, it is necessary that we should now turn to the fortunes of George Harris. This remarkable mulatto, who unites the genius of an Arkwright to the person of an Antinous, shortly before Eliza's hegira, had incurred the displeasure of his master for having invented "a machine for the cleaning of hemp" which displayed as much talent, we are told, as Whitney's cotton-gin. George was hired by the proprietor of a large bagging factory, where he was "considered the first hand in the place" and was greatly caressed. His owner, however, cannot brook the crime of invention, and seeks to humble his proud spirit in the performance of the most degrading offices. As well he might hope to humble a Plantagenet or a Pottowattomy. George runs off, bids adieu to Eliza and the boy who are yet on the estate, disguises himself, with the help of a little walnut bark and hair-dye, as a Spanish grandee of the sangre azula, and with two pistols and a bowie knife under his waistcoat, travels leisurely, in his own conveyance, to the border line of the free states, actually stopping to read, in a tavern by the wayside, the handbill in which the reward of Four Hundred Dollars has been offered for his recovery or, as usual, "for satisfactory proof that he has been killed." If any one portion of Mrs. Stowe's book is more silly than another, it is this account of George's escape. The most embruted wretch that ever "wolloped" his negro, like his donkey, even without the provocation that he "wouldn't go," could not have acted like George's master. George, at the factory, where his genius might be brought into exercise, was worth to his owner five times as much as he could have been on the plantation, and it is a little the most improbable thing in the world that the owner would have sacrificed his pecuniary interest with no other motive than a humiliating sense of his negro's mental superiority. But Mrs. Stowe convicts herself of an utter ignorance of the Law of Contracts, as it affects Slavery in the South, in making George's master take him from the factory against the proprietor's consent. George, by virtue of the contract of hiring had become the property of the proprietor for the time being, and his master could no more forcibly have taken him away than the owner of a house in Massachusetts can dispossess his lessee, at any moment, from mere whim or caprice. There is no court in Kentucky where the hirer's rights, in this regard, would not be enforced. As for the details of the escape—the Spanish disguise, the pistols and bowie-knife, the easy nonchalance of the principal performer, et cetera, they would not go down as part and parcel of the burnt-cork melodrama of the Bowery.

  While George was playing this magnificent part, Eliza had, as we have already described, succeeded in reaching a temporary place of refuge among the Quakers. These worthy people live, it seems, in Indiana. To their village, by a lucky accident, comes George, and a happy reunion of parents and child takes place. But the fugitives are not yet beyond the reach of danger. For Loker and his myrmidons are upon their track, prepared to identify them as slaves. It is necessary, therefore, to push on the Canada. On the way they are overtaken. A struggle ensues between the two parties, in which Loker is shot by George Harris. The rest of the pursuers fly, and the mulatto proceeds without further difficulty, until he sets foot, with Eliza and the child, upon the Canadian shore of Lake Erie. The triumph of innocence is complete.

  Having disposed of the Harrises, we have now to direct our attention to Uncle Tom. It is a sad day at Mr. Shelby's when Haley returns from his ineffectual pursuit of Eliza, to take away the negro manager from the old plantation. Mr. Shelby has gone off to avoid the disagreeable scene of the departure; Old Chloe, Uncle Tom's wife, and the picaninnies mingle their tears with those of Mrs. Shelby; the whole establishment wears an air of the deepest gloom—two persons only of all seem unaffected, the purchaser and the purchased. Haley, steeled against the promptings of pity, and Uncle Tom himself, lifted by a noble resignation to the will of Providence far above the weakness of despondency, are equal to the occasion. The manacles are put on, and Tom is whirled away. A mile from the house, they meet young George Shelby, the son of Uncle Tom's former master, who has been absent for a few days. Tom gives some parting advice with his blessing to George, and George, with generous fervor, promises to redeem Tom at some future day, and the interview terminates. Without other incident that we need mention, Haley reaches La Belle Reviere and embarks with Uncle Tom upon its waters, in a steamer bearing the beautiful French name of the stream itself.

  We think it well here to advert to a prominent fault of Mrs. Stowe's production, because it is exhibited, perhaps, as conspicuously in the earlier chapters as any where else. It lies in the cruel disparity, both intellectual and physical, which our authoress makes between the white and black races, to the prejudice of the former. The negro under her brush invariably becomes handsome in person or character, or in both, and not one figures in Uncle Tom's Cabin, no matter how benighted or besotted his condition, who does not ultimately get to heaven. But while Mrs. Stowe can thus "see Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt," she is unable to look upon a white face without tracing in it something sinister and repulsive. The fairest of her Southern ladies retain some ugly marks of their descent from the erring mother of our race—

Some flowers of Eden they still inherit,
But the trail of the serpent is over them all.
  The white villains she thus describes are villains indeed. Dante fell into some rather bad company when he descended with Virgil to the realms of the lost, but the demons of the Inferno are amiable and well-behaved gentlemen in comparison with Marks and Loker. On the other hand, Beatrice, soaring to the loftiest circles of the glorified, is but a commonplace damsel by the side of Eliza. See with what Titianesque touches she is represented to the us. The "rich, full, dark eye with its long lashes;" the "ripples of silky black hair;" the "delicately formed hand" and "trim foot and ankle;" "the dress of the neatest possible fit," setting off to advantage "her finely moulded shape"—all these make up a picture the effect of which is heightened by the assurance that the original possesses "that peculiar air of refinement, that softness of voice and manner, which seems in many cases to be a particular gift to quadroon and mulatto women." As for Uncle Tom, he is an epitome of the cardinal virtues, a sort of ebony St. Paul undergoing the perils, the stripes, the watchings and ultimately the martyrdom of the Apostle, with all of the Apostle's meekness and fortitude, carrying a stainless soul in an offending body, and walking through much tribulation, without a single turn from the straight course, to the portals of the Heavenly Kingdom. In person he is finely and powerfully made, and as the manager of Mr. Shelby's estate his judgment and discretion are unparalleled in Southern agriculture. Trusted with untold gold, he never yields to the temptation of appropriating a piece of it to his own use. Resentment for injury was what Uncle Tom had never experienced. Whisky, the "peculiar wanity" of his race, has never passed his lips. Finally, whatsoever things are true, whatsover things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; it there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, all these things were blended in Uncle Tom.

  In attributing this perfection to the negro character, Mrs. Stowe not only "o'ersteps the modesty of nature," but she places in a strong light the absurdity of the whole story of Mr. Shelby's sacrifice. An Irish soldier in our army was once rebuked by his commanding officer for getting drunk. "Arrah! yer honor," said Pat, "yer wouldn't be after expectin' all the Christian vartues in a man, for eight dollars a month!" In like manner we would ask if a sensible man like Mr. Shelby could be expected to sell so much of prudence, honesty, foresight, sobriety and affection as were found in Uncle Tom, for any sum that Haley would be willing to allow for him? We are not told what this sum was, but judging from Haley's grinding disposition, and the fact that he afterwards sold Uncle Tom for thirteen hundred dollars, it is fair to the fix his original price at One Thousand Dollars. Now, admitting Mr. Shelby's embarrassments and conceiving it possible that he could set aside all his long-standing attachment for Uncle Tom at the bidding of an insolent trader, is it likely that so valuable, or rather so invaluable, a piece of property would have been relinquished for so small a "consideration"? But a high-toned and chivalrous Kentuckian cannot so easily divest himself of his humanity, and it is a slander upon that gallant State to represent the scene within her borders. The dialogue with which Mrs. Stowe's novel opens, if carried to its legitimate conclusion, would have been a short one. Mr. Shelby would have "participated matters," as Mrs. Malaprop says, by knocking Haley down stairs.

  But our authoress would have Uncle Tom sold, and we now return to him, with his new master—

Floating down de riber of de O-hi-o!

  In due time they reach the Mississippi, upon whose turbid flood they are borne to New Orleans. Before arriving at this metropolis, an incident occurs to Uncle Tom which operates a material change in his condition. Among the passengers in the steamer, there is a certain Mr. St. Clare, a young, rich, clever and handsome Louisiana planter, on his way home from a Northern excursion, accompanied by his daughter, a fair-haired little seraph of five or six years of age, and a New England cousin, one Miss Ophelia St. Clare, who has never before been in the Southern States. One day this little daughter falls overboard from the forward deck, just as the boat is leaving a landing. Tom, who has been reading his bible near at hand, plunges after her in a moment, and rescues her from drowning. A friendship springs up between the child and Uncle Tom which leads to his purchase by Mr. St. Clare, to whose luxurious establishment in New Orleans our sable hero is now speedily transferred. The role assigned him was that of coachman, but his duties amounted to no more than a general supervision of the stables. The business of his life was to play the companion to Evangeline, or Little Eva, as she was generally called, to minister to her simple wants, to pluck for her the sunniest fruits and to twine roses in her golden hair. Eva on her part was not less zealous in gentle offices. She read to him, as Tom had never heard them read before, those passages of Holy Writ which were most calculated to impress both their imaginative intellects. Thus for two years did "the foot of Time" with Tom, "tread noiselessly on flowers." But the cheek of Little Eva soon mantled with that hectic glow which announces the dread presence of consumption. The art of the physician was invoked in vain to arrest the fatal malady. Day by day the form upon which parents and friends gazed so fondly, wasted from their sight. The fine intellect of the child flashed out with preternatural brilliancy as its earthly tenement was about to be dissolved. The vigils of Uncle Tom at the bedside of the sufferer are described with a pathos that goes to the heart of the reader. At last the destroyer came. In the sad circle of the bereaved there was none whose grief was more bitter and abiding than Uncle Tom's.
  This touching little episode is so far the best part of the novel that it seems to be not of it. It is a gem shining amid surrounding rubbish. We think, however, that we have read something very like it before. The enchanting conception of grace and innocence in the person of little Eva is not original. Years ago, the tears of thousands of readers were drawn forth by the story of a child, in all respects the prototype of Eva, whose angelic figure, floating above an atmosphere of guilt and shame, seemed to sanctify its habitation on earth, as the presence of Eva hallowed the frivolity and extravagance of the St. Clare household. She too was fondly attached to an old man, less saintly than Uncle Tom, but feeling as deep a sentiment of love for his youthful companion as ever Uncle Tom felt. She too sickened of consumption and went down to a premature grave. The story was written by Charles Dickens, and our readers have doubtless already noted the resemblance of Eva and Tom to Little Nell and her grandfather.

  One evening during Eva's lifetime, Miss Ophelia, the bustling little spinster to whom we have already alluded, came into the room where St. Clare lay reading his paper, with a raw-head-and-bloody-bones account of a negro woman having been whipped to death by her master.

  "'An abominable business,—perfectly horrible!' she exclaimed, as she entered the room where St. Clare lay reading his paper.

  "'Pray, what iniquity has turned up now?' said he.

  "'What now? why, those folks have whipped Prue to death!' said Miss Ophelia, going on, with great strength of detail, into the story, and enlarging on its most shocking particulars.

  "'I thought it would come to that, some time,' said St. Clare, going on with his paper.

  "'Thought so!—an't you going to do anything about it?' said Miss Ophelia. 'Haven't you got any selectmen, or anybody, to interfere and look after such matters?'

  "'It's commonly supposed that the property interest is a sufficient guard in these cases. If people choose to ruin their own possessions, I don't know what's to be done. It seems the poor creature was a thief and a drunkard; and so there won't be much hope to get up sympathy for her.'

  "'It is perfectly outrageous,—it is horrid, Augustine! It will certainly bring down vengeance upon you.'

  "'My dear cousin, I didn't do it, and I can't help it; I would, if I could. If low-minded, brutal people will act like themselves, what am I to do? They have absolute control; they are irresponsible despots. There would be no use in interfering; there is no law that amounts to anything practically, for such a case. The best we can do is to shut our eyes and ears, and let it alone. It's the only resource left us."

  In a subsequent part of the same conversation, St. Clare says—

  "'For pity's sake, for shame's sake, because we are men born of women, and not savage beasts, many of us do not, and dare not,—we would scorn to use the full power which our savage laws put into our hands. And he who goes the furthest, and does the worst, only uses within limits the power that the law gives him.'"

  We have italicized a sentence or two of this conversation to direct attention to the reckless manner in which our authoress puts loose statements into the mouths of her characters. We are told in the appendix that this incident of the killing of Prue occurred "under the personal observation" of a brother of the authoress who was a clerk to a large mercantile house in New Orleans at the time. If we understand the force of language, it is here meant that this gentleman was an actual eye-witness of the murder. If so, then was he, before God and man, an accessory to the crime. For he had only, in the event that his own interposition would not have sufficed to the prevent it, to have called in the police to have saved Prue's life. And failing to do this—standing by, in cold blood, while a fellow-being was brutally scourged to death without an effort to rescue her—not even volunteering his evidence subsequently to ensure the punishment of the murderers, in what light can we regard his conduct other than as making him particeps criminis of Prue's death? But Mrs. Stowe tells us, through St. Clare, that "there is no law that amounts to the anything" in such cases, and that he who goes furthest in severity towards his slave, i.e. to the deprivation of an eye or a limb or even the destruction of life, "only uses within limits the power that the law gives him." This is an awful and tremendous charge, which lightly and unwarrantably made, must subject the maker to a fearful accountability. Let us see how the matter stands upon the statute-book of Louisiana. By referring to the Civil Code of that State, Chapter 3rd, Article 173, the reader will find this general declaration—

  "The slave is entirely subject to the will of his master, who may correct and chastise him, though not with unusual rigor, nor so as to maim or mutilate him, or to expose him to the danger of loss of life, or to cause his death."

  On a subsequent page of the same Volume and Chapter, Article 192, we find provision made for the slave's protection against his master's cruelty, in the statement that one of two cases, in which a master can be compelled to the sell his slave, is

  "When the master shall be convicted of cruel treatment of his slave, and the judge shall deem proper to pronounce, besides the penalty established for such cases, that the slave shall be sold at public auction, in order to place him out of the reach of the power which the master has abused."

  A code, thus watchful of the negro's safety in life and limb, confines not its guardianship to the inhibitory clauses, but proscribes extreme penalties in case of their infraction. In the Code Noir (Black Code) of Louisiana, under the head of Crimes and Offences, No. 55, xvi, it is laid down that

  "If any person whatsoever shall wilfully kill his slave or the slave of another person, the said person being convicted thereof shall be tried and condemned agreeably to the laws."

  And because negro testimony is inadmissable in the courts of the State, and therefore the evidence of such crimes might be with difficulty supplied, it is further provided that

  "If any slave be mutilated, beaten or ill-treated contrary to the true intent and meaning of this act, when no one shall be present, in such cases, the owner or other person having the management of said slave thus mutilated shall be deemed responsible and guilty of the said offense, and shall be prosecuted without further evidence, unless the said owner or other person so as aforesaid can prove the contrary by means of good and sufficient evidence, or can clear himself by his own oath, which said oath every court under the cognizance of which such offense shall have been examined and tried, is by this act authorized to administer." Code Noir. Crimes and Offenses, 56, xvii.

  Enough has been quoted to establish the utter falsity of the statement, made by our authoress through St. Clare, that brutal masters are "irresponsible despots"—at least in Louisiana. It would extend our review to a most unreasonable length, should we undertake to give the law, with regard to the murder of slaves, as it stands in each of the Southern States. The crime is a rare one, and therefore the Reporters have had few cases to the record. We may refer, however, to two. In Fields v. the State of Tennessee, the plaintiff in error was indicted in the circuit court of Maury county, for the murder of a negro slave. He pleaded not guilty; and at the trial was found guilty of wilful and felonious slaying of the slave. From this sentence, he prosecuted his writ of error, which was disallowed, the court affirming the original judgment. The opinion of the court as given by Peck, J. overflows with the spirit of enlightened humanity. He concludes thus—

  "It is well said by one of the judges of North Carolina, that the master has a right to exact the labor of his slave; thus far, the rights of the slave are suspended; but this gives the master no right over the life of his slave. I add to this saying of the judge, that law which says thou shalt not kill, protects the slave; and he is within its very letter. Law, reason, christianity and common humanity all point out one way." 1st Yerger's Tenn. Reports. 156.

  In the General Court of Virginia, June Term, 1851, in Souther v. The Commonwealth it was held "that the killing of a slave by his master and owner, by wilful and excessive whipping, is murder in the first degree; though it may not have been the purpose of the master and owner to kill the slave." 7th Grattan's Reports, 673.

  Having placed this matter of the irresponsibility of masters and the insecurity of slaves in its proper light, we revert to the history of Uncle Tom. Soon after the death of Eva, St. Clare determined to emancipate that good and faithful servant, and actually took the initiatory steps for the purpose. Uncle Tom looked forward with delight to his return to Chloe and his children upon "the old plantation." But the fates had ordered otherwise. St. Clare is brought home one night from a cafe, mortally wounded by a stab from a bowie-knife which he had received in endeavouring to separate two combatants. He lives but a few moments and has no time to declare his wishes as to the disposition of his property. Tom finds himself, after the pompous pageant of his master's funeral is over, at the mercy of a proud, selfish, languid, fashionable, hard-hearted woman, his master's widow—Marie St. Clare. Of this woman we have not before spoken, because she exists in the story hitherto only as a parenthesis, without contributing to its action or at all affecting its characters. We may here say in brief that as an individual we do not object to her, for we have seen many such in the whirl of fashion in New York and Boston, and such there may be in New Orleans, but that as the type of a class, as a portraiture of Southern female character, she is a gross and stupendous libel. And this libel is all the more unpardonable because Marie St. Clare is represented as a member of a Christian Church, uniting with becoming propriety in all the observances of religion—whereby Mrs. Stowe seeks to bring into contempt the entire communion of the Southern States. We have no words to express our scorn of such an effort, and therefore we proceed to say that this pious widow sets at naught her husband's already-begun proceedings with regard to Uncle Tom and sells him—conduct of which not one Southern lady of a thousand would be guilty, but in perfect consistency with Marie's natural disposition and altogether necessary to the dreadful denouement Mrs. Stowe has in store for us.

  Behold Uncle Tom now the property of Simon Legree, a Red River planter. And here we may stop a moment to perform an act of justice to Mrs. Stowe in saying that she has transcended all delineations of the scoundrel that have yet fallen under our notice, in this head-devil of her story. Legree is a darker, a more perfect, a more consistent, a more symmetrical piece of diabolism than the literature of any language within the limited sphere of our knowledge can furnish. Og in the reeking couplets of Dryden—Jean qui rit, the laughing executioner of Louis XI., who found it such capital sport to chop heads off before breakfast—the worst fiends of the Italian poets—Rhadamanthus, in the gloomy shades, punishing first and trying afterwards—Tiberius in the debasement of Capreae—all these bad characters, historical and imaginary, by throwing their blackest traits into a joint stock and presenting them in one master-piece of associated deformity, could not have made up such a mauvais sujet as our friend Simon. And if "Uncle Tom's Cabin" is remarkable in no other respect, it is certainly entitled to the praise of giving the world assurance of a villain.

  Legree carries Uncle Tom in fetters to the plantation, and from their arrival at that pleasant retreat, the Iliad of Uncle Tom's woes becomes a darker and more painful story until the final scene of all. He is beaten almost every day, for the sole reason that he does not deserve it. He does more than his share of work, and is flogged for that. He will not cry aloud under his sufferings, nor upbraid his persecutor, and this is considered sufficient cause for additional stripes. He refuses to lash his fellow-servants, and the fury of Legree becomes ungovernable. Let it be remembered that Uncle Tom's excellences as a "hand" had been early noticed by his master, who hoped to make him one of the most profitable slaves upon his estate. As a matter of self-interest, therefore, it would seem as if Legree ought to treat Uncle Tom well. But his cupidity is no match for his cruelty. One day in a frenzy of rage he scourges Uncle Tom beyond the point of human endurance, and the poor, submissive, heroic negro sinks upon his wretched pallet, never to rise from it again. By many persons who regard this novel as a tissue of falsehoods, this shocking act of barbarity will be considered improbable. We confess, however, that to us, Mrs. Stowe seems for once to have kept within the strict limits of vraisemblance. For the reader must bear in mind that Simon Legree had not been brought up in a slaveholding community, and had therefore no acquaintance with the negro character, no sympathy with their peculiar traits, no aptitude for their government. Mrs. Stowe tells us that

  "In early childhood, a fair-haired woman had led him, at the sound of Sabbath bell, to worship and to pray.

Far in New England that mother had trained her only son, with long unwearied love, and patient prayers."
  Now, it is well-known in the Southern States that of all tyrants in the world, a New England slave-driver is the most cruel and remorseless. We mean not, in saying this, to reflect upon our brethren of the Northern States, nor will we imitate our authoress by holding up Legree generically as a fair representative of the New England master. But no one who has studied the institution of slavery, can have failed to observe that in a majority of cases, New England slaveholders err, in the management of negroes, in one or the other of two ways—either by indulging them to an extent which puts all subordination out of the question, or by holding over them a rod of iron. The kind-hearted Northern man will never be able to overcome a certain and very natural repugnance to the use of the lash, and so his slaves will do just as they please. The New Englander of less sensibility soon learns how to lay it on, and enforces a discipline the rigor of which exceeds any thing known upon the plantations of Southerners. Much of the odium with which slavery is regarded abroad, is due to the cruelty of New England masters like Legree, and but for the salutary operation of such laws, as we have adduced, for the negro's protection, scenes, similar to the "martyrdom" of Uncle Tom, might be more frequent than we are glad to know they now are. The greater humanity of Southern men in the administration of corporal punishment is attested by a Northern writer who brought forth, two years ago, a volume, the object of which was the abolition of flogging in the Navy. He says,

  "It is a thing that American man-of-war's men have often observed, that the Lieutenants from the Southern States, the descendants of the old Virginians, are much less severe, and much more gentle and gentlemanly in command, than the Northern officers, as a class."*

  While Uncle Tom is in the very article of death, but still in the full possession of his faculties, young George Shelby, mindful of his promise to the redeem the old manager of the estate at home, arrives at Legree's. An affecting scene occurs between them, marked by the noblest submission on the part of Uncle Tom, and an honest indignation on the part of the generous Kentuckian. It was indeed enough to rouse the blood of the young man—this atrocious murder of his dearly-loved and long-tried negro servant and friend, the grown-up companion of his boyish sports. He seeks Legree, and we are prepared to the expect that he will visit summarily upon the head of that miscreant the just retribution of his crime. Mrs. Stowe works us up for something dreadful. Legree speaks to George in an insulting tone. "The word was as a spark to a powder-magazine," and when a spark is communicated to a powder-magazine we naturally look out for a "general burst up." But what does the reader suppose to be the conduct of this "Kentucky boy" to whom "prudence was never a cardinal virtue"? "With one indignant blow," he knocks Legree, (not "into a cocked hat" but) "flat on his face!" Shade of Nemesis, what an expiation was there! Why Simeon Halliday himself, that drab-coated member of the Society of Friends, to whom we were introduced in the first volume as the whilome protector of Eliza, would have done something more to the purpose. The scene is a shocking anti-climax. If our authoress did not intend gratifying us with "justifiable homicide" why should she take such especial pains to the make us anticipate it? As it is, we feel like the crowd at Tyburn when there came a reprieve of the highwayman—we have been swindled out of an indefeasible, though not, perhaps, wholesome, excitement.

  We must go back a little here, in order to get at the end of the story understandingly, for the purpose of introducing a character whom Uncle Tom found at Legree's plantation on his first arrival there, and with whose antecedents is connected the only thing like plot in the whole novel. This is a quadroon woman called Cassy. Her life has been a life of shame and suffering. The child of a slave woman and a wealthy proprietor, she had been nursed in the lap of luxury, and sent, at a proper age, to a convent, where she acquired music, French, embroidery and other accomplishments. When she was fourteen years of age, her father died suddenly of Asiatic Cholera, and Cassy was set down in the inventory of his property. The lawyer who came to settle up the estate was a handsome young man, and Cassy fell in love with him. In turn he seemed fascinated with her, and Cassy was not sorry to learn that she was to become his property. He soon placed her in a "beautiful house with servants, horses and carriages, and furniture, and dresses." Some years passed away, and Cassy was the mother of two lovely and interesting children. Up to this time, her master had lavished upon her every proof of affection but one—the marriage vow. But things changed, and Cassy was sold with her children, to clear off the gambling debts of her owner. The purchaser did not long retain his newly acquired property. Cassy passed into the possession of Simon Legree; her children, a boy and a girl, both of tender years, went off with new masters, she knew not whither.

  Just before Uncle Tom was whipped to death, Cassy had projected a plan of escape with Emmeline, another quadroon inmate of Legree's household, and it was in connection with their disappearance that Uncle Tom suffered. The plan is successful. Cassy disguised as a Spanish Donna with Emmeline as her maid servant, having helped themselves freely to Legree's money before going off, reach in safety a Mississippi steamboat, the same in which George Shelby embarks on his return to Kentucky. George is struck with Cassy's appearance and pays her some attentions. Cassy, becoming uneasy under the close observation with which he regards her, confides to him the whole story of the escape, and receives from him the assurance of his protection. On the boat, occupying the next state-room to Cassy, is a very beautiful woman, one Madame de Thoux. Hearing that George Shelby is from Kentucky, she makes enquiries of him concerning George Harris, and being told of his flight to Canada, exclaims with fervor "Thank God!" She then explains that George Harris is her brother, that she had been purchased many years before by a West Indian planter who had emancipated and married her, that her husband had lately died, and that she was now on her way to Kentucky for the purpose of setting George at liberty. We shall not stop to comment on this string of unnatural incidents, for something stranger is about to transpire. George Shelby in speaking of George Harris mentions his marriage with Eliza. We quote the rest of the conversation—

  "'Was she born in your house?' said Madame de Thoux.

  "'No. Father bought her once, in one of his trips to New Orleans, and brought her up as a present to mother. She was about eight or nine years old, then. Father would never tell mother what he gave for her; but, the other day, in looking over his old papers, we came across the bill of sale. He paid an extravagant sum for her, to be sure. I suppose, on account of her extraordinary beauty.'

637

  "George sat with his back to Cassy, and did not see the absorbed expression of her countenance, as he was giving these details.

  "At this point in the story, she touched his arm, and, with a face perfectly white with interest, said, 'Do you know the names of the people he bought her of?'

  "'A man of the name of Simmons, I think, was the principal in the transaction. At least, I think that was the name on the bill of sale.'

  "'O, my God!' said Cassy, and fell insensible on the floor of the cabin."

  Of course Eliza turns out to be Cassy's child and we are soon entertained with the family meeting in Montreal, where George Harris is living, five or six years after the opening of the story, in great comfort.

  Now, the reader will perhaps be surprised to know that such an incident as the sale of Cassy apart from Eliza, upon which the whole interest of the foregoing narrative hinges, never could have taken place in Louisiana, and that the bill of sale for Eliza would not have been worth the paper it was printed on. Observe. George Shelby states that Eliza was eight or nine years old at the time his father purchased her in New Orleans. Let us again look at the statute book of Louisiana.

  In the Code Noir we find it set down that

  "Every person is expressly prohibited from selling separately from their mothers, the children who shall not have attained the full age of ten years."

  And this humane provision is strengthened by a statute, one clause of which runs as follows—

  "Be it further enacted, that if any person or persons shall sell the mother of any slave child or children under the age of ten years separate from said child or children, or shall, the mother living, sell any slave child or children of ten years of age or under, separate from said mother, such person or persons shall incur the penalty of the sixth section of this act."

  This penalty is a fine of not less than One Thousand nor more than Two Thousand Dollars, and imprisonment in the public jail for a period of not less than six months nor more than one year. Vide Acts of Louisiana, 1 Session, 9th Legislature, 1828-9, No. 24, Section 16.

  What will now be said of the story of Cassy and her children? Really Mrs. Stowe should be more cautious in the construction of her works of fiction. And yet we know not but the fancy sketch of the separation and the reunion was the best finale "Uncle Tom's Cabin" could have had. There is a fitness, a sort of epic unity in making a book of the most absurd improbabilities wind up in an impossibility that we can not think open to criticism.


  We have devoted a much larger space to the plot of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" than we designed, when we commenced this review; it only remains for us to consider briefly those points upon which the authoress rests her abuse of the Southern States, in the book as a whole. These may be reduced to three—the cruel treatment of the slaves, their lack of religious instruction, and a wanton disregard of the sacred ties of consanguinity in selling members of the same family apart from each other.

  We have already shown, by a reference to the laws regulating slavery in the Southern States, that many of the allegations of cruelty towards the slaves, brought forward by Mrs. Stowe, are absolutely and unqualifiedly false. As for the comfort of their daily lives and the almost parental care taken of them on well-regulated plantations, we may say that the picture of the Shelby estate, drawn by Mrs. Stowe herself, is no bad representation. The world may safely be challenged to produce a laboring class, whose regular toil is rewarded with more of the substantial comforts of life than the negroes of the South. The "property interest" at which the authoress sneers so frequently in "Uncle Tom's Cabin," is quite sufficient to ensure for the negro a kindness and attention, which the day-laborer in New England might endeavor to win from his employer. But we surely need not elaborate a point which has been settled so well by Southern writers before us.

  The lack of religious instruction for slaves is a charge against the South, in great favor with Northern fanatics, many of whom are deplorably in want of "religious instruction" themselves, and vastly beneath the pious slave in that love for their neighbour which is the keystone of the Christian arch. Yet never was there a charge more extravagant. We can tell these worthies that throughout the Southern States a portion of every house of worship is set apart for the accommodation of slaves; that upon very many plantations, may be seen rude but comfortable buildings, dedicated to God, where stated preaching of His Holy Word is ordained; that Sabbath schools for negroes are established in several Southern cities; and that in every Southern family, almost without an exception, where morning and evening prayers are held, the domestics of the household are called together to unite in them. Instances of fervent and unaffected piety among the negroes, where they have not been tampered with by Abolitionists, are by no means rare. The entire absence of anxiety of mind, with the negro, arising from the perplexities of business and the lack of employment, and the practice, habitual to him from his birth, of resigning all care for the morrow to his master, are favorable to the reception of religious truth, and we believe that statistics would show a larger proportion of professing Christians among the negroes than among the whites. Writers like Mrs. Stowe, in treating of this subject, assume that there can be no acquaintance with gospel truth among a class who are not permitted to learn to read. But how many of the early Christians were ignorant and illiterate persons? The fishermen of Galilee were men without instruction when they first followed the fortunes of the lowly Nazarene. As for Mrs. Stowe, she is answered upon this point in her own pages. Uncle Tom was no scholar, and after many years of diligent application could at last read his bible with difficulty. Yet where shall we find a nobler and purer exemplification of the "beauty of holiness" than in him? It is, indeed, a triumphant vindication of the institution of slavery against Mrs. Stowe's assaults, that in a slaveholding community, a character so perfect as "Uncle Tom" could be produced. We have, it is true, intimated that "Uncle Tom" is somewhat overdrawn, not one dash of human frailty entering into his composition. Yet making due allowance for this, and relying solely upon his biblical lore, we may take "Uncle Tom," and deny, in the face of New England that there can be any serious lack of religious instruction in a society of which he was a member. Mrs. Stowe is, we believe, peculiarly favored in the way of spiritual advantages. Daughter of one clergyman, wife of another and sister to a third, she is redolent of the "odor of sanctity." Yet for ourselves we would not exchange Uncle Tom's unlettered, but trustful and unpretending piety for the erudite goodness of the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, who can read his [in the beginning was the word] in the original Greek, or the intellectual devotion of his worthy sister, who can "make a story-book," as the children say, "all out of her own head."

  The sundering of family ties among the negroes is undoubtedly a dreadful thing as represented by Abolition pamphleteers. Nor have we any desire to close our eyes to the fact that occasionally there do occur instances of compulsory separation involving peculiar hardship. But we have shown that in the very State which Mrs. Stowe has chosen for her most painful incident of this character, there are statutory regulations mitigating very much the severity of this condition of affairs, and we may add that every where the salutary influence of an enlightened public opinion enforces the sale of near relatives in such manner as that they may be kept as much as possible together. We are of the opinion too that heart-rending separations are much less frequent under the institution of slavery than in countries where poverty rules the working classes with despotic sway. But admit the hardship to its full extent, and what does it prove? Evils are inseparable from all forms of society and this giant evil (if you will call it so) is more than counterbalanced by the advantages the negro enjoys. Ever since the day that St. Paul bid adieu to the little flock at Miletum, who followed him down to the ship, "sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake, that they should see his face no more"—there have been mournful partings and sobbing farewells. The English soldier ordered to the distant coast of India, with a high probability that he will die there of a fever, weeps above his wife and children before he marches off to the tap of the drum; and yet is no argument for the disbanding of the English army that family ties are rent by its stern and undiscriminating discipline.
  There are some who will think that we have taken upon ourselves an unnecessary trouble in exposing the inconsistencies and false assertions of "Uncle Tom's Cabin." It is urged by such persons that in devoting so much attention to Abolition attacks we give them an importance to which they are not entitled. This may be true in general. But let it be borne in mind that this slanderous work has found its way to every section of our country, and has crossed the water to Great Britain, filling the minds of all who know nothing of slavery with hatred for that institution and those who uphold it. Justice to ourselves would seem to demand that it should not be suffered to circulate longer without the brand of falsehood upon it. Let it be recollected, too, that the importance Mrs. Stowe will derive from Southern criticism will be one of infamy. Indeed she is only entitled to criticism at all, as the mouthpiece of a large and dangerous faction which if we do not put down with the pen, we may be compelled one day (God grant that day may never come!) to repel with the bayonet. There are questions that underlie the story of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" of far deeper significance than any mere false coloring of Southern society, and our readers will probably see the work discussed, in other points of view, in the next number of the Messenger, by a far-abler and more scholar-like hand than our own. Our editorial task is now ended and in dismissing the disagreeable subject, we beg to make a single suggestion to Mrs. Stowe—that, as she is fond of referring to the bible, she will turn over, before writing her next work of fiction, to the twentieth chapter of Exodus and there read these words—"THOU SHALT NOT BEAR FALSE WITNESS AGAINST THY NEIGHBOUR."



The appearance of a work of this character at this juncture will not surprise any one, who has carefully observed the objects, which writers of fiction have had mainly in view during the last few years. Their course now partakes in large measure of the utilitarian character of the age. Moral tales, highly wrought scenes, exposing and condemning existing institutions, and recommending some one or other of the many modes of reform, by which projectors in politics and in morals fondly hope to attain that perfection in this world which religion and revelation teach us to be reserved for another and a better, have taken the place both of the old romance and the historical novel. This path is not entirely new, but it has acquired a new importance—and a most dangerous one, unless the new responsibilities necessarily incident to it, are allowed their due weight. The old romance was read merely for amusement; the fancy was excited and entertained; no conviction was intended to be produced. Hence no harm was done, except now and then making love-sick girls still more love-sick, and disposing boys capable of making very good tradesmen, to writing very bad poetry. By this the aggregate of human misery was not very materially increased.

  The class of historical novels is a large one. We mean not only those which detail historical facts, set off and adorned by the charms of fiction, but also such as illustrate the customs and habits of nations and communities at various epochs. Mr. Macaulay has taught us, both by precept and example, the true province of all history, and the same great authority has pointed out the use and beauty of fiction as the handmaid of history. To recommend historical research, to illustrate manners and customs, to show how these mold the character of a people, or rather, how manners, and customs, and character, act and re-act upon each other, has been, almost entirely within the last twenty or thirty years, the highest province of fiction. It is most essential to the truth and beauty of the historical novel that there should be an air of probability over the story, that nothing absurdly false be stated; that there be a sufficient adherence to the general run of historical events, to avoid shocking the public mind. Consistently with this, but in strict subordination to it, some liberty is allowable, even with geography and chronology, the "two eyes of history." The artist is allowed the largest liberty with the minutiae of his picture. What a particular person says or does to another, what the course of this moralist, or of that reprobate, how the feudal baron may treat his family or retainers, what the private character of the soldier or statesman—all these, and things like these, the writer may mold and fashion as he pleases, so that he preserves the general air of probability and writes nothing glaringly false. In short, as he is in very little danger of misleading at all, since his errors can hardly have any permanently injurious effect upon society, it is unimportant whether his details are true or false. His province is to show how people would probably act under given circumstances, not to assert that they have actually so acted. He seeks to interest and instruct, but he has not the higher aim to establish and enforce principles which are to effect the very groundwork of society; while the general tendency of the historical novel should be uniform, having an instructive and beneficial end in view, the mere details are of comparatively little consequence, and afford legitimate as well as full scope for the writer's fancy.
  Fiction, as well as science, is progressive. From the old romance to the historical novel, there is a great advance in dignity and importance; so the distance is immeasurable between the historical and the new philosophical novel. The one sets before us the past in colors more or less vivid; the other is designed to affect the present and the future. Generations now unborn may rue mistaken feeling or policy thus introduced. In this walk of fiction a writer may have an incalculable influence, and with this influence his increased responsibilities must keep pace. Hence mere detail, the very merest detail, becomes important. Not only should it be shown how people may act under the present laws, usage and institutions of society, but a foul slander is perpetrated unless it is shown how they do act. Here a suggestio falsi is worse than a suppressio veri. Charity or prudence may lead to the latter, reckless malignity alone can drive to the former. The object differs from that sought by any other class of writers of fiction, and the course pursued should differ likewise. Here the license of the artist is much narrowed, and even in the smallest minutiae he should paint from life; all exaggeration is wrong, not merely out of place. Unless truth is carefully observed even in the details, gross injustice is done, and a wrong impression produced upon the public mind.

  In reading the late work of Mrs. STOWE, most southern readers, and it is to be hoped, very many of her northern countrymen, will be painfully impressed with her neglect—a neglect not confined to her, but general with the class of writers to which she belongs—of truthfulness in her details. Even the license allowed the historical novelist is exceeded here, and that in a work aimed at an institution existing in a large portion of the Union, and where very little license is allowable. Exaggeration pervades the whole; characters uncommon any where, in any state of society, however christian and refined, are held up as types of a race long held in a state of mental and moral degradation. Slavery in the southern States offers a tempting field to writers of this class. We are only surprised that it has not been long since crowded to excess. But the literature of the Abolition-Society is at last aspiring to something above mere handbills and tracts. Not only has its mouth-piece "hit the right nail on the head, as an abolitionist and philanthropist," in the words of a late English Review, but the book has sold well, and the speculation in sentimentality and "higher law" doctrines is a good one for the novelist as well as the politician.

  With many faults of style and matter, "Uncle Tom's Cabin" is no ordinary work. As a collection of false facts and possible untruths it is unrivalled; but the falsehoods are generally well told, and are certainly well stuck to from preface to conclusion. It has too much literary merit to deserve to be hastily read, and carelessly thrown aside, and forgotten as soon as read. The story is told with dramatic effect. The persons speak for themselves, and, with the exception of some odd expressions put in the mouths of educated people, speak pretty much as such people, if they could ever exist any where—might be expected to do, if they could live where the author has located them, or be placed in the position in which she has placed them.

  The sketches of Uncle Tom and Aunt Chloe will be read with pleasure by slaveholders. They will carry them back to their childhood and remind them to what were really, in some degree, the relations of master and slave before Garrison & Co. became famous and influential, and it will be indignantly denied that such a servant is ever so sold by his owner.

  Mrs. STOWE does not inform us clearly why Uncle Tom is sold by his Kentucky master. A slave-dealer has bought up the notes of a gentleman of fortune and position to the amount of about fifteen hundred dollars. This places Mr. Shelby so completely in Haley's power that he can force him to do things which his soul abhors. To part with a faithful servant, to tear a tried friend from his family, and hand him over body and soul to a negro-trader, to part a young mother from her infant, to send a young child, in whose plays and gambols he takes delight, to be put up in a slave-market—not only to harrow up his own feelings by such a course as this, but also to inflict needless distress upon a wife whom he respects and loves. This would seem enough, but it is not all. The proud, high-toned gentleman degrades himself to the level of the vulgar ruffian. He is actually made to introduce the negro-buyer to his table, to his wife and family. He permits familiarities which gentlemen do not often endure even from their equals and intimates—and all this because he owes him a debt which he could easily pay over and over again. So paltry a debt can never, under any code of laws, bring a debtor so completely under a creditor's control, certainly not when he has property enough to pay the debt ten times over. This is the leading absurdity in the book, and it is a fair sample of the way in which Mrs. STOWE surrounds her characters by circumstances.

  Of course, one never meets with such high-toned, self-sacrificing gentlemen, such humble and devout christians, as Uncle Tom, anywhere, of any shade of complexion, white or black. Whatever christian virtues are in process of development in the negro character whether in Africa or America, human nature has not yet reached such a state of perfection. Still slaveholders will love Uncle Tom and thank Mrs. STOWE for such a creation of her fancy. His fidelity and love, his gratitude to his master for favors conferred, and confidence reposed in him will make him unpopular in certain circles in the free States alone. In those circles, for instance, where it is the fashion to exalt a fugitive slave into a hero, and where a fighting Quaker is applauded for dropping his peaceful and honest principles, for setting law at defiance, and fighting and stealing in the cause of philanthropy.

  Mrs. STOWE's sketches are very forcible; she has no idea of a common every day character, an ordinary compound of good and evil. Her devils of whatever variety of complexion she may please to portray them, are very black; and her angels, white and colored, white as the driven snow; and each one, devil and angel, has its opposite arrayed against it, and the comparison duly pointed out and enforced.

  In Eva St. Clare we have the loveliness of childhood and the grace of beautiful, pious infancy; but we miss the simplicity we are entitled to expect in such a character; she is far too wise for her years, as well as too good for human nature. To say that there are such children, but they never live to be adults, is no defense against the charge of exaggeration. That parents should fondly dwell upon the imaginary perfection of their lost children is both natural and right; but to insist upon the common saying, "I knew I should never raise this child, 'twas too good for this world," as anything more than a very pardonable and very weak expression of grief, is simply absurd. Human nature is much the same in those who live long, and in those who die early.

  Augustine St. Clare, the father of Eva, seems to have inspired Mrs. STOWE with a large measure of the affection which her readers are intended to feel for him. Like the sculptor of old, she is enamored of her own handiwork. He appears upon her canvass a weak and effeminate dreamer, lazily adapting himself to circumstances, refusing to think, fearing to disapprove; charms of person and manner, of refinement and feeling adorn a character to which even the possession of great native talent can impart no strength. He is a large slaveholder, but the discipline of the plantation is too shocking to his feelings. Hence he leads a life of sloth in the city surrounded by slaves whose situation is a constant reproach to his conscience—a sceptic, because too indolent to study or think upon the subject of religion, an indulgent master, because too slothful to control his household. The death of his daughter drives him to seriousness, and in spite of his own efforts to dissipate thought, the prayers of his slave become the means of his conversion. Mrs. STOWE is with much difficulty reconciled to making her paragon a slaveholder while a careless worldling. It is not to be thought of, when he becomes a conscientious christian. But, on the other hand, Uncle Tom must not so escape from slavery. All trouble is saved by cutting off St. Clare in a New Orleans cafe.
  As a set-off against the many perfections exhibited in Augustine St. Clare, we have a sketch of his stern brother Alfred. He is a despot, generous enough, upright in his dealings with the few whom he esteems his equals, harsh and tyrannical to his inferiors—a born aristocrat living and moving in a republican society, and denouncing contemptuously every principle which supports republicanism. Such men as these brothers may possibly exist in the Slave States, but they are unknown to their neighbors. Their perfection on the one side and defects on the other are discernible to the "optics keen" of their northern brethren alone. They are certainly not types of the class of southern planters.

  Miss Ophelia—Topsy's Miss Feely, differs in one respect from most northern women domesticated in southern families; she waits on herself from choice, scorning the assistance of the servants. The general experience in such cases is that they fear being confounded with the negroes, if they do anything at all. Hence they require far more of the time and attention of the slaves than the southern matrons whom Mrs. STOWE so hideously caricatures in the person of Marie St. Clare. We confess that we know very little of the stiff, puritanical class of maidens to which Miss Ophelia belongs. But we think it hardly in the nature of any woman to shrink from the very touch of a poor, neglected child, whether white or black. So we will see only Miss Feely's good traits, and hope that her bad ones have not escaped the all-pervading exaggeration of the book.

  But passing by all minor fiends, we hasten to the arch-demon Simon Legree. Here Mrs. STOWE has shown uncommon skill in devil-painting of the good old style. He is a native of New England who has fallen from the high estate of freedom and abolitionism. He has broken the heart of a praying mother. He has been a pirate, and now has reached the acme of all villainy in becoming a Red River planter and slaveholder. All the vices are blended harmoniously in his character; avarice, cowardice, cruelty and meanness have undisputed sway over him. Uncle Tom falls into his hands and the cup of bitterness is now full. Humility, obedience, patience, unmurmuring endurance have no effect upon that iron heart. Mrs. STOWE seems to intend, by desecrating her pages with such a sketch as this, to show what crimes a hardened villain, who is a slaveholder, may commit, without falling under the penalties of the law. And she thinks that this impunity results from the inadmissibility of the testimony of negroes against whites. Certainly very great evils may result from this; tho' here we should remark that in Louisiana, where she locates Legree, such evidence is admissible. This will serve as a specimen of Mrs. STOWE's accuracy; but we will give her the full benefit of supposing that there, as in most of the States, free as well as slave, such evidence is excluded. This exclusion may lead to very great evil, and it appears to us that, with suitable provisions and guards, this reproach may be removed. Still legislatures, perfectly conversant with the negro character, and not at all blinded to the dangers pointed out, have determined upon it after mature deliberation. Their opinions are entitled to respect of persons comparatively ill-informed upon the subject. At all events it is evident that such enormities, as Mrs. STOWE charges upon southern planters in her character of Legree, could not be committed without leaving traces which would rouse the public and lead to the punishment of the perpetrator. Mrs. S TOWE surely does not need to be told, that the evidence of circumstances would have its full weight in such cases. In every instance the criminal would fall into the hands of the public prosecutor, and most generally circumstantial evidence enough could be obtained to insure his conviction. To say that the planter feels secure in the perpetration of any crime, because none but negroes are witnesses to the act, is no more than to say that the midnight assassin feels safe because no human eye sees him. The same circumstances which generally convict the latter, would affect the former, and that the more certainly, because the negroes would direct suspicion toward him. But, even should the guilty slave-owner escape the penalties of the law, the alarm would be given, and an outraged public would visit the offender with swift and terrible vengeance. The mark of Cain would be upon such a man, but it would not avail to protect his wretched life. This is the actual state of the case.
  We are constrained to admit much of what Mrs. STOWE says about the separation of negro families. The truth of this is every where felt and deplored,—quite as much in the slave as in the free States. This evil is held up by Mrs. STOWE in most glowing colors. But while we think it of much less frequent occurrence than she would have us believe, we admit that there is enough of it to cause much distress. With the fullest admissions upon this point, Uncle Tom's Cabin still remains a most unjust and exaggerated picture of southern manners and society as affected by the institution of slavery, and also of the state of the slaves themselves.

  We come now to the object of the work. Mrs. STOWE's concluding chapter informs us that, until the passage of the Fugitive Slave Law, she had refused to think or read upon the subject of slavery. This, however, aroused her energies, and we have their first fruits in the shape of this novel. Its design is to bring this law into contempt, and to excite a feeling, if possible, which shall prevent its execution. We shall merely show what plan of attack is pursued, and will leave it to Mrs. STOWE herself to count the cost of success in case she should succeed.

  Her fugitive slaves are white, educated and refined. The men are cavaliers such as never graced a tournament, the women far superior in beauty and excellence to any who there bestowed the rewards of valor. In George we are shown the agonies of a noble mind galled by a constant sense of degradation. In his wife Eliza we are treated to an affecting picture of matchless beauty in distress. George is entirely too magnanimous to blame man for maltreating him. So he vents his displeasure on God for placing him under the control of a master.

  Mrs. STOWE can easily ascertain that there are communities in the border free States where her sketches of George and Eliza will be received with more surprise than anywhere in the slaveholding portion of the Union. The citizens of Pennsylvania and Ohio will laugh bitterly as they look for the originals of these characters among the pests and scourges of their neighborhoods.

  We are introduced to an Illinois legislator, whose wife, being the better half in fact, makes him violate laws which he has just aided in passing. Nor do we blame our neighboring Solon; in an exactly similar case, if one could possibly happen, we should be tempted to do very much as he did.

  Next comes a Kentuckian who has set free his negroes and crossed over to a free State. There with several stalwart sons, he is prepared to shelter fugitive slaves even to committing murder in the defence.

  Then we have a Quaker settlement, and in it almost as singular a state of things as a moralist like Mrs. STOWE could easily select for approving mention. Persons of a sect whose first tenet is obedience and non-resistance to law are banded together to steal property as part of their duty to God and man. In this community "Friend Phineas" is our especial favorite. He has been an old hunter and anything but a non-combatant. The soft charms of a Quaker damsel have inclined his heart to peace and goodwill toward all men. Still the old Adam is not quite rooted out. The older friends gravely hint that his prayers lack unction. In fact he veils under his calm exterior and sober dress a lawless and adventurous spirit which must vent itself in some way. Verily, friend Phineas, thee must have found negro-stealing a perfect Godsend! When the fugitives are pursued, Phineas of course leads them off. He opposes fighting, but the spirit moves him to "stay and see the fun." Nothing can tempt him to use the arm of flesh, but he promptly "executes judgment" upon a wounded man by pushing him down a precipice, quietly remarking the while "Friend, thee isn't wanted here at all."

  It is not surprising that Mrs. STOWE should call upon the fugitive slave himself to resist capture to the death; but she certainly knows that when white men—whether Quakers or no—countenance them in so doing, they are accessories in a murder, when an owner or his agent is killed. In this book she assumes a most heavy responsibility; she not only advises the fugitive slave to take the life of his owner to avoid recapture, but also to destroy the officer whom the local authorities may send to arrest him. More even than this; she calls upon the people of the free States to aid him in doing so. She will find very few readers to applaud her object when nakedly stated.

  Be the law right or wrong, no such resistance as this should be encouraged. We have peaceful and constitutional modes of repealing obnoxious laws. Let writers use their efforts to have these resorted to. They will then be doing their whole duty. We think the fugitive slave law necessary and right; but if we agreed with Mrs. STOWE concerning it, we should still protest against her way of defeating its provisions. In the first place she strikes at that respect due the constituted authorities upon which society everywhere rests; in the next place the course which she advises would lead to civil war. Heaven save us from philanthropy like this!

  We do not think that these heavy faults are at all redeemed by any great literary merit in the work; but there is enough of this to give rise to a wish that Mrs. STOWE had employed her time and talent in some way more creditable to herself as an author and patriot. She misrepresents and exaggerates until her sketches not only lose all likeness to their proposed originals; but also whatever form or comeliness they might otherwise possess. She recommends robbery and murder on the part of the slave, aiding and abetting him even in these on the part of the whites; resistance, moral and physical, to constituted authorities, and she seeks to lay the foundation for endless heart-burnings and contentions between the people of the two sections of the country. In one place, at least, "the Union" is sneeringly alluded to. The pernicious doctrine that "the slave is absolved from all the obligations of mankind," is everywhere enforced. The immediate emancipation of the slaves, and their admission to equal civil and political rights are demanded as due to justice and christian duty. Many passages in the work point to amalgamation of the whites and blacks. The direct inference to be drawn from Mrs. STOWE's support of this disgusting doctrine, is this: That she is willing to occupy the position of proposing to her countrywomen to submit themselves to the embraces of negroes, thus becoming the mother of a degraded race of mulattoes. Can she be the advocate of prostitution like this?
  While the whole question of slavery in the southern States is open to examination, and claims no immunity from attack, those who undertake to discuss the general subject should be very sure of possessing more than ordinary qualifications for inquiring into and setting forth the truth. It is easy to write a plausible story or essay on either side, but somewhat difficult to be just, temperate and intelligible either in attack or defence. To convey an idea of what may be demanded of a writer upon this subject, we subjoin an extract from a work of the late Professor Dew, of Virginia. Premising that it was written before Abolitionism became noisy, and while many southern politicians were busily seeking out feasible schemes for the emancipation of slaves.

  After alluding to the two classes of population in the southern States, Professor Dew says:

  

"Upon the contemplation of a population framed like this, a curious and interesting question readily suggests itself to the inquiring mind: Can these two distinct races of people, now living together as master and servant, be ever separated? Can the black be sent back to his African home, or will the day ever arrive when he can be liberated from his situation and mount upwards in the scale of civilization and rights, to an equality with the white? This is a question of truly momentous character; it involves the whole framework of society, contemplates a separation of its elements, or a radical change in their relation, and requires for its adequate investigation the most complete and profound knowledge of the nature and sources of national wealth and political aggrandizement, an acquaintance with the elastic and powerful spring of population, and the causes which invigorate or paralyze its energies, together with a clear perception of the varying rights of man amid all the changing circumstances by which he may be surrounded, and a profound knowledge of the principles, passions and susceptibilities, which make up the moral nature of our species, and according as they are acted upon by adventitious circumstances, alter our condition, and produce all that wonderful variety of character which so strongly marks and characterizes the human family. Well, then, does it not behoove even the wisest statesman to approach this august subject with the utmost circumspection and diffidence; its wanton agitation is pregnant with mischief."
  We respectfully commend the above extract to a careful consideration of all ambitious scribblers and declaimers upon this subject.



UNCLE TOM'S CABIN.
  This is a fiction—professedly a fiction; but, unlike other works of the same type, its purpose is not amusement, but proselytism. The romance was formerly employed to divert the leisure, recreate the fancy, and quicken the sympathies of successive generations, changing its complexion and enlarging the compass of its aims with the expanding tastes of different periods; but never forgetting that its main object was to kindle and purify the imagination, while fanning into a livelier flame the slumbering charities of the human heart. But, in these late and evil days, the novel, notwithstanding those earlier associations, has descended from its graceful and airy home, and assumed to itself a more vulgar mission, incompatible with its essence and alien to its original design. Engaging in the coarse conflicts of life, and mingling in the fumes and gross odours of political or polemical dissension, it has stained and tainted the robe of ideal purity with which it was of old adorned. Instead of remaining the ever welcome companion of an idle hour, which turned to profit by its sweet alchemy the loose moments devoted to intellectual reverie, it has entered upon a sterner career, and one which requires us to question the visitant before admitting it to our confidence or listening to its tale. Now-a-days, it frequently assumes both the stole of the philosopher and the cassock of the priest and exhibits strange contracts between its face and figure, and the garb in which they are enveloped. Sometimes, though rarely, we discover the fairy features of our former favorite under the new disguise, and are only amused by the quaint antics and grotesque diablerie which spring from the uncongenial union: but more commonly the airy phantom which flitted before our earlier fancy, is transmuted into an aged and haggard crone, who wears the mask, pads her shrivelled limbs, and clothes herself in a deceptive garb, that she may steal more securely into our unsuspicious favor, mumble her incantations before we recognise them as the song of Canidia, and distill into our ears the venom of her tongue, before any apprehension is awakened. In the one case we may imagine that we have before us Omphale in the arms of Hercules; in the other, it is the drunken Lais, proud of the conquests of her youth and beauty, and garnishing the silly tattle of her age with the shreds and patches she has preserved from her ancient association with Ariatippus. The one may still be a Venus, though bedecked with the casque and plumes of Minerva: the other is the veriest drab who ever pretended to sense or virtue, to modesty or religion.

  The wide dissimilarity between these two classes of romancing missionaries renders it important for us to be on our guard, and should suggest the prudence of questioning at the threshold, these new votaries of fiction, that we may know whence they come, and to what end they visit us. We may tolerate the coquettish airs of the one; we must repel the disgusting and depraved seductions of the other. If they descend upon us like the angel visits of former dreams, bearing balm upon their wings, and bringing consolation in the afflictions or trials of life, by enlarging the range of our sympathies, and revealing to our eyes the pettiness of our own sorrows, murmurs, complaints, and difficulties, in comparison with the vast array of deeper agonies, more arduous struggles, and darker fortunes cumbered amongst the possible and probable contingencies of human life,—then, as in the days when they were still untainted with suspicion, let us bid them welcome, and receive or endure the philosophy which but little befits them, for the sake of the inspiration, the hope, or the resignation which they instill. But, if the emblems of fiction are assumed but to delude, if the stole which they wear is the robe of the Cynic, or their hood the cowl of the fanatic; if their mission is to produce discontent, to be the heralds of disorder and dissension, then, though their song be as sweet as the Syren's, and their skin as sleek and slimy and glistening as that of the serpent which tempted Eve, let us bid them avaunt! and repel them from our intimacy and from our dwellings, which their presence would contaminate. But, in either case, let us examine their nature before we extend to them our greetings, or reject them with disgust.

   We have examined the production of Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, which we purpose to review, and we discover it to belong to the latter class, and to be one of the most reprehensible specimens of the tribe. We own that we approach the criticism of the work with peculiar sensations of both reluctance and repugnance. We take no pleasure in the contact with either folly or vice; and we are unwilling to handle the scandalous libel in the manner in which it deserves to be treated, in consideration of its being the effusion of one of that sex, whose natural position entitles them to all forbearance and courtesy, and which, in all ordinary cases, should be shielded even from just severity, by that protecting mantle which the name and thought of woman cast over even the erring and offending members of the sex. But higher interests are involved; the rule that everyone bearing the name and appearance of a lady, should receive the delicate gallantry and considerate tenderness which are due to a lady, is not absolutely without exception. If she deliberately steps beyond the hallowed precincts—the enchanted circle—which encompasses her as with the halo of divinity, she has wantonly forfeited her privilege of immunity as she has irretrievably lost our regard, and the harshness which she may provoke is invited by her own folly and impropriety. We cannot accord to the termagant virago or the foul-mouthed hag the same deference that is rightfully due to the maiden purity of untainted innocence. Still, though the exception undoubtedly exists, and we might, without indecorum, consider that all claims to forbearance had been lost by Mrs. Stowe, we shall not avail ourselves of the full benefit of her forfeiture. We cannot take the critical lash into our hands with the same callous indifference, or with the same stern determination of venting our just indignation, that we might have done, had the penalty been required for 'the lords of creation.' We will endeavor, then, as far as possible, to forget Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, and the individuality of her authorship, and will strive to concentrate our attention and our reprehension on her book, venturing only an aside at parting—a quotation from a work which it would be infamy to cite in connection with any other lady's name than her own:
Ciel, que je hais ces creatures fieres, 
Soldats en jupe. hommasses chevalieres!
Du sexe male affectant la valeur, 
Sans posseder les agremens du notre,
A tous les deux pretendant faire honneur,
Et qui ne sont ni de I'un ni de l'autre.
  With this, we dismiss Mrs. Stowe: and we claim credit for our forbearance in thus resisting the temptation to castigate the improprieties of a woman, who has abandoned the elevated sphere appropriate to her sex, and descended into the arena of civil dissension and political warfare—to say no more—where the gladiators contend naked and a l'outrance.

   We have said that Uncle Tom's Cabin is a fiction. It is a fiction throughout; a fiction in form; a fiction in its facts; a fiction in its representations and coloring; a fiction in its statements; a fiction in its sentiments; a fiction in its morals; a fiction in its religion; a fiction in its inferences; a fiction equally with regard to the subjects it is designed to expound, and with respect to the manner of their exposition. It is a fiction, not for the sake of more effectually communicating truth; but for the purpose of more effectually disseminating a slander. It is a fictitious or fanciful representation for the sake of producing fictitious or false impressions. Fiction is its form and falsehood is its end. When Aristotle assigned to poetry the precedence over history for its superior efficacy in instructing, refining, and ennobling mankind: when Bacon re-echoed the praise, and eulogised the works of the imagination, as seeking, by the universality and congeniality of ideal truth, to correct and elevate the warped and imperfect examples of virtue furnished in human action, they certainly never anticipated that the realm of fiction would be degraded into the domain of falsehood, or that fiction would cease to be the means of inculcating truth for the sake of substituting itself as the ultimate aim in the place of truth. By the beneficent Providence of God, the mind of man has been so constituted that, amid all the frailties and illusions, the follies and the errors of fallen humanity, it can still conceive of virtue more enduring and undeviating, of justice more unswerving, of fortitude more constant and patient; and of charities more diffusive and ennobling than the trials, and difficulties, and obstacles of actual existence will permit to be exhibited. Fancy, as if lighted up by the radiance of the sun which gilded the landscapes of Eden, can revert to imagined possibilities of a higher, a holier, and a nobler existence, and recalling, as it were, the reminiscences of the days of purity and innocence, can strengthen our hearts and elevate our feelings, to resist the seductions of evil; when, without such aid, the imperishable relic of a better condition—we might too easily yield to the vanities, the vices, and the temptations of life. But the magic wand is broken—the priceless treasure lost—when, instead of limiting the play of the imagination to its legitimate employment, we turn it to unholy uses. Nay, it is degraded and stripped of its power of transmitting this baser life of ours into the semblance of a golden age, when we suffer its potency to be turned to opposite ends, and to be applied not to the revival of the latent image of ideal excellence, but to the dirty sorcery of party purposes and fanatical aims. The rod of Aaron, which blossomed in the desert, drew down day by day celestial food from heaven, and educed from the river rock the living waters, to quench the deadly thirst of the Israelites, was the same wand which brought the plagues of flies and frogs and locusts, famine and pestilence and death, over the populous valleys of the prolific Nile. So it is with fancy: the fiction, which is the hand-maiden of truth, may refresh our fainting spirits in the wilderness of life: the fiction, which ends in fiction and is the slave of falsehood, will spread a fatal blight where all was salubrious, and happy and prosperous before.

  In Uncle Tom's Cabin, the vice of this depraved application of fiction and its desolating consequences, may be readily detected. Every fact is distorted, every incident discolored, in order to awaken rancorous hatred and malignant jealousies between the citizens of the same republic, the fellow countrymen whose interests and happiness are linked with the perpetuity of a common union, and with the prosperity of a common government. With the hope of expediting or achieving the attainment of a fanatical, and in great measure, merely speculative idea, of substituting the real thraldom of free labor for the imaginary hardships of slavery—the hydra of dissension is evoked by the diabolical spells of falsehood, misrepresentation, and conscious sophistry. What censure shall we pass upon a book, calculated, if not designed, to produce such a result? What condemnation upon an effort to revive all the evils of civil discord—to resuscitate all the dangers of disunion—allayed with such difficulty, and but recently lulled into partial quiescence by the efforts of the sages and the patriotic forbearance of the States of the Confederacy? What language shall we employ when such a scheme is presented, as the beau ideal of sublimated virtue, under the deceptive form of literary amusement, and is seriously offered as the recreation of our intellectual leisure?
  We have neither the time nor the inclination run methodically through the labyrinths of misrepresentation which constitute the details of this romance. It has obtained an unhappy notoriety, which would render the task as profitless as it would be ungrateful. The copy before us purports to belong to the ninety-fifth thousand already published in America; and we see that upwards of one hundred and fifty thousand have been issued in England. How rapid the circulation of error! how slow the program of truth! How easy the propagation of falsehood; how arduous the dissemination of its antidote! When in the course of a few short mouths, a quarter a million of the readers of the English tongue manifest their readiness to welcome and their anxiety to believe a lie, it is useless for the injured party to disprove the false statement, as his disclaimers will be drowned by the clamors of the aggregated fanatics. The circumstances of the time; the distempered atmosphere of public sentiment, both at the North and beyond the Atlantic; the mawkish sensibilities and the imbecile ignorance of many within our own borders; the recent and still active agitation of the Slavery question in Congress and in the Presidential canvass; the frenzy of fanaticism and the fever of political intrigue, have all conspired to give a popularity and currency to the work at this particular moment, which its ability does not justify, and its purposes should forbid. Still, from whatever cause its multitudinous dispersion may arise, this of itself assures us both of the virulence of the venom and of the aptitude of the public mind both at the North and in England, to catch the contagion, and welcome the contamination. Hence, the necessity on the part of all those interested in the rights, the prosperity, the happiness and the integrity of the South, to accord to it a notice far beyond what its intrinsic merits or even vices might claim. But, as a bold, sweeping, unmitigated accusation against the Southern States, it cannot be suffered to pass entirely without challenge, nor can it be permitted to circulate without reprobation and repudiation. The consciousness of right, the dignity of our position, the knowledge of the inefficacy of our disclaimers, might prescribe unruffled contempt and unbroken silence, as the true mode of meeting the bald slanders and the forged accusations of mere fiction: but the purpose of the fiction—the intention of the libel is recognized, welcomed and applauded by myriads; and the numbers which swell the battalions of our adversaries render them dangerous, however contemptible the component units may be.

   But, though we condescend to give more attention to Uncle Tom's Cabin than we think such a work or such an attack entitled to on its own score, we will not prolong our disagreeable duty so far as to follow it through all the mazes of its misrepresentation—through all the loathsome labyrinths of imaginary cruelty and crime, in which its prurient fancy loves to roam. So far as a false statement can he rectified by positive denial,—so far as misrepresentation can be corrected by direct, abundant, unquestionable proof of the error, this service has been already adequately rendered by the newspapers and periodical literature of the South. We have intimated our belief, that both the negation and the refutation are useless, for our adversaries are as deaf and as poisonous too, as the blind adder. But this service has already been fully rendered. It would, then, be a work of supererogation to repeat the profitless labor, to trace the separate threads of delusion which enter into the tissue of deception, and to exhibit the false dyes and the tangles of fiction which aid in the composition of the web. It would seem almost a hopeless waste of time to show how the truth which has been so scantily employed, has been prostituted to base uses, and made to minister to the general falsehood; how human sympathies have been operated on to encourage and sanctify most unholy practices: how every commandment of the decalogue and all the precepts of the Gospel have been violated in order to extend the sanctification of the higher-law, to every crime denounced and condemned by laws, human and divine. Unfortunately for the cause of the South, the evidence for or against her, is neither weighed nor regarded: the defence is rejected without consideration, and all slanders are cordially received, not because they are known or proved to be true, but because they are wished to be so; and harmonise with pre-conceived and malicious prejudices. We have not the ear of the court; our witnesses are distrusted and discredited, and in most cases, they are not even granted a hearing; but the case is presumed to be against us, and by a summary process a verdict of guilty is rendered, without any regard to the real merits of the cause, but in compliance with the fanatical complicity of the jurors. Why is this? and what is the court before which we are required to plead?
   Assuredly, there is no necessity to convince the slave owners, or the residents in the Southern States, that the condition of society, the status of the slave, the incidents and accidents of slavery, the practices or even the rights of masters, are exhibited in a false light, and are falsely stated in Uncle Tom's Cabin; and that, by whatever jugglery or sorcery the result is obtained, the picture, with all its ostensible desire of truthful delineation, is distorted and discolored, and presents at one time a caricature, at another a total misrepresentation of things amongst us. It is not to Southern men that it is necessary to address any argument on a topic like this. They are already aware of the grossness of the slander by their own observation and experience. No, the tribunal to which our defence mast be addressed, is the public sentiment of the North and of Europe. In both latitudes, the case is already prejudged and decided against us; in both, popular ignorance and popular fanaticism, and a servile press have predetermined the question. The spatial circumstances of the condition of society in both have led to the complete extinguishment of slavery, eo nominee; and what was dictated by pecuniary interest, and achieved by folly or accident, is believed to furnish the immutable canon for the action of all communities, and to constitute the valid criterion of a higher law, which shall promise all the blessings of redemption to those who vilify and malign their fellows for following the example of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and all the curses of damnation to those who are the innocent victims of the abuse. The ignorant and unreflecting outcry of those whose social condition is infinitely below that of our slaves, is eagerly caught up by the myriad serfs of the dominant cottonocracy; is re-echoed from all points of the horizon; and is believed to be the language of truth because it is the clamor of a multitude. A better class stimulates and repeats the defamation, because their interests are supposed to accord with the perpetuation of ignorance and the propagation of delusion on this subject; and because it is a cheap expenditure of philanthropy to melt in sentimental sorrow over remote and imaginary evils, while neglecting the ever present ills and pressing afflictions in their own vicinage. Such a tone of sentiment among both the educated and the illiterate classes in those communities where literature is a trade and the mercenary principles of Grub street constitute the morality of all intellectual avocations, generates a literary atmosphere which is fatal to the dissemination of unpopular truths, and which gives singular vitality and longevity to error, by pandering to the popular desire for its circulation and confirmation. In this manner, we may understand both the cause of the thousands of copies of Uncle Tom's Cabin, which have been sold at the North and in England, and also the extreme difficulty, not to say absolute impossibility, of securing a dispassionate hearing for our defence, or of introducing the antidote where the poison has spread. There is no obduracy so impracticable—no deafness so incurable—as that Pharisaical self-sanctification and half-conscious hypocrisy, which gilds its own deliberate delusions with the false colors of an extravagant morality, and denounces all dissent from its own fanatical prejudices, as callous vice and irremediable sin. The whole phalanx of Abolition literature, in all its phases and degrees, is fully imbued with this self-righteous spirit; and its influence, under all forms in fiction and in song—in sermon and is essay—in politics harangue as in newspaper twaddle is completely turned against us: and an aggregation of hostile tendencies is brought to bear upon us so as to deny to our complaints, our recriminations, or our apologies, either consideration or respect. The potency of literature, in this age of the world; when it embraces all manifestations of public or individual thought and feeling, and permeates, in streams, more or less diluted, all classes of society, can scarcely be misapprehended. But the illiberal, unjust, and unwise course of Southern communities, has deprived them of the aid of this potent protection, by excluding themselves and their views almost entirely from the domain of literature. The Southern population have checked and chilled all manifestations of literary aptitudes at the South; they have discouraged by blighting indifference, the efforts of such literary genius as they may have nurtured: they have underrated and disregarded all productions of Southern intellect; and now, when all the batteries of the literary republic are turned against them, and the torrent of literary censure threatens to unite with other agencies to overwhelm them, it is in vain that they cry in their dire necessity, "Help me, Cassius, or I sink." The voice of a home-born literature, which would have been efficient in their defence, is almost unheard, and, if uttered, is scarcely noticed beyond Mason and Dixon's line, because the Southern people have steadily refused to it that encouragement, both in the shape of material support and public favor, which is essential to its healthy development and assured existence, and which is imperatively required to give it respectability and influence abroad. Thus are we to explain the reason why the arguments and expositions of Southern sentiment on the subject of slavery, pass so entirely unheeded-why both its expostulations and denials are wholly disregarded, and its grave discussions contemptuously scorned and rejected without a moment's consideration.
   What Southern author has not occasion for bitter complaints of the neglect, injustice, and illiberality of the Southern communities for which he has lived and written? What Southern work has been introduced to public favor by the cordial co-operation of Southern men, or the steady approbation of the Southern people? What Southern periodical, established for the development of Southern intellect, for the defence of Southern institutions, for the creation of a Southern literature, has not languished for want of adequate encouragement, come to a premature end for want of respectable support, or lingered on with a frail and fainting existence, having ever on its tongue and in its heart the humiliating confession that the South, for which it labored and to which it ministered, was indifferent to its fate? The fact that some few Southern works have attained distinction, that a few Southern periodicals have been able to protract a feeble and uncertain life through all trials and difficulties, reveals rather the native energy of the Southern mind, the spontaneous vitality of Southern intellect, than furnishes any disproof or palliation of the folly, the illiberality, the injustice, or the mole-eyed and narrow-minded sagacity of the Southern States.

   It is a natural and inevitable consequence of this silly and fatal indifference to the high claims of a native and domestic literature, that the South is now left at the mercy of every witling and scribbler who panders to immediate profit or passing popularity, by harping on a string in unison with the prevailing fanaticism. It is a necessary result of the same long continued imprudence, that no defence can be heard, no refutation of vile slander regarded in the courts of literature, which comes from a land whose literary claims have been disparaged and crushed by its own blind recklessness and meanness. In Uncle Tom's Cabin, there is certainly neither extraordinary genius nor remarkable strength: the attack is unquestionably a weak one; there is only that semblance of genius which springs from intense fanaticism and an earnest purpose; and that plausibility which is due to concentrated energy and a narrow one-sided exposition of human afflictions: yet, though so slight be the merits of the book, the only criticism in reply which could pretend to any general efficiency in arresting the current of the virtual slander—and then by no means an adequate one—must be sought beyond the Atlantic, and gathered from the columns of the London Times. The South has benumbed the hearts and palsied the arms of her natural and willing defenders: she has dismantled her towers, and suppressed her fortresses of all efficient garrison, and she is now exposed, unarmed and unprotected, to all the treacherous stratagems sod pitiless malice of her inveterate and interested enemies. She has invited and merited her own fate: she has wooed the slander which she is almost powerless to repel: she has offered a premium to vituperation and imposed a grave penalty on every attempt to redress the indignity to which she has subjected her citizens.

   It is not without distinct and deliberate purpose, that we have thus unveiled the secret causes of that contempt for the feelings, the interests, the rights, and the views of the South; which is indicated by the sudden and unprecedented success of Uncle Tom's Cabin, and also of that impossibility of obtaining an equal hearing in reply, which renders it as ungrateful and useless, as the task of exposing its perversions and misrepresentations is humiliating and disgusting. We will not repeat the unwelcome and unprofitable labor. The only true defence of the South against this attack, and the swarms of similar insults and indignities which its success and the prevalent fanaticism will generate, is to create and cherish a true Southern literature, whose spontaneous action will repel and refute such accusations, and command a respectful consideration wherever intellect is honored, or truth even dimly sought. Let the South honestly and cordially sustain her own periodicals, and her own writers, and such productions will cease to alarm or annoy her, or if they should attempt to fret her, they will he brushed aside without effort, and without producing even momentary injury. Let her fail to do this, and no one can complain if she is slandered, without contradiction and maligned without defence.

   The mis-statements of Uncle Tom's Cabin, have already, as we have said, been frequently exposed, but the refutation has been entirely disregarded in those quarters where alone the disproof of its mis-representations could be required. But, if for these and other reasons, we will not so far degrade ourselves as to retrace the beaten track, what remains for a Southern writer to do? Absolute silence is liable to misconstruction, and the just indignation which so malignant as outrage would merit, might be traduced as blind rage at the detection of guilt. He is, therefore compelled, by the untoward circumstances of the case, to speak, although convinced that, by so doing, he concedes much of the dignity of his cause to the evasive vituperation of its enemies. He may, however, enter his solemn protest against the reception of an impeachment, supported by testimony, which has been steadily and uniformly denied and disproved. He will do this, not with the hope of arresting the course of the slanderers, but for the sake of hearing testimony to the innocence of the South, and the wanton guilt of her accusers, and of preventing her from becoming a party to her own defamation, by the silence which might be construed as assent. He may then strike out a new line of argument, which, by waiving the points apparently in dispute, may, perhaps, conciliate attention, and discuss the real issue in a manner less calculated to excite or revive the habitual prejudices.
   Something of this sort we will endeavor to do. We will concede for the nonce, the general truth of the facts alleged, and will maintain that, notwithstanding this concession, the culpability of the work, its fallacy and its falsehood remain the same. In the one case, the false conclusions are erected upon the basis of false assertions; in the other, we overlook the untruth of the statements, and find that they are deliberately employed for the insinuation of untrue and calumnious impressions. We will suppose, then, that such enormities as are recounted in Uncle Tom's Cabin, do occur at the South: that George Harris and Eliza his wife, with that seraphic little mulatto, their child, have, in truth, their prototypes among our slaves, and that the brutal treatment of the former by his owner, might find its parallel in actual life. We will endeavor to imagine the reality of the murder of Prue, and the probability of the virtues, misfortunes and martyrdom of Uncle Tom—and, still heavier tax upon our credulity, we will suppose the angelical mission of that shrewish Yankee maiden, Miss Ophelia, for the conversion of hopeless niggers, and the redemption of Ebo, to have been a fact:—and, yet, notwithstanding all this, and it is tough, indeed, to swallow, we will maintain the doctrines of the book to be most pernicious, the representation given to be the most erroneous, the impression designed to be produced the most criminal and false, and the iniquity of the scandalous production to be entitled to unmitigated censure and reprobation. We will not even limit our concession so far as might be requisite to bring the delineation within any reasonable approximation of the truth; we will not insist that the incidents conceded must be regarded as exceptional cases; for it is perceived in Uncle Tom's Cabin, that to admit them to be exceptions, would be to change, entirely, the character of the argument, and destroy its validity. How acute is the perverse instinct of deliberate wrong: how sagacious the ingenuity of premeditated error? We will concede all the facts stated in the work: all that we will not concede, is the significance attributed to them, and their relevancy for the purpose for which they are employed. And, having granted all this, we still believe that we can offer an ample vindication of the South, and justify the severest censure of this inflammatory and seditious production.

   We cannot, however, pass to what may be regarded as the argument of the work, without noting that the hero and heroine of the tale—the tawny Apollo and Venus, with the interesting yellow Cupid, on whom so large a portion of the plot is concentrated—belong exactly to that particular shade of tainted blood, when the laws of many of the Southern States, if not of all, would recognize them as free. George and Eliza Harris, as represented, have a larger proportion of white blood in their veins, than is compatible with the continuance of the servile condition. The jurisprudence of those very communities, which are vilified for their imaginary mistreatment of this elegant pair, is not savage enough to retain them is bondage. It would only have been necessary for them to exhibit their radiant countenances, their soft, glossy hair, and curling ringlets, and prove the superabundance of their Caucasian blood in any of our courts of justice, to be assured of obtaining their free papers. If the work was intended for an exposition of the enormities incident to slavery, and for a protestation in favor of the injured and own-trodden African race, is it not a singular dishonesty of procedure to assume as types of this class, those who are rather degraded specimens of the white blood, than in any sense, representatives of the African, and who do not, legitimately, by the laws of the South, belong to the class intended to be redeemed by the exhibition of their sufferings, but more properly to the tribe of the alleged oppressors. Into such inconsistencies is malice betrayed, when it aims at producing false impressions, and is utterly unscrupulous in the employment of any means which seem calculated to heighten the false effect desired.

   But leaving this exceedingly vulnerable characteristic of Uncle Tom's Cabin, the argument of the work—for there is an argument even in successive dramatic pictures designed to produce a given effect, as well as in successive syllogisms designed to establish a special conclusion:—the argument of the work is, in plain and precise terms, that any organization of society—any social institution, which can by possibility result in such instances of individual misery, or generate such examples of individual cruelty as are exhibited in this fiction, must be criminal in itself, a violation of all the laws of Nature and of God, and ought to be universally condemned, and consequently immediately abolished. Unhappily, in all the replies to Uncle Tom's Cabin which have hitherto been attempted under the form of corresponding fiction, usually, we are sorry to say, by weak and incompetent persons, it has not been recognized with sufficient distinctness that the whole strength of the attack, as the whole gist of the argument, lies in this thesis. The formal rejoinders have consequently been directed to the wrong point: the real question has been mistaken; and the formal issue never joined. This explains the insufficiency of such counter representations as Aunt Phillis's Cabin, and similar apologies; and also that sense of insufficiency which they have not failed to produce. It is no valid refutation of the offensive fiction that slavery may be shown to present at times—no matter how frequently—a very different phase. This point was already guarded:—nay, it was already conceded in Uncle Tom's Cabin; and such a mode of replication consequently mistakes the subject of debate, and is entirely without force because directed against a post already surrendered. It may be doubted, indeed, whether an assault on a solemn interest, moral or social, conveyed under the garb of fiction, can ever be satisfactorily answered under a similar form. If it could be, it would be too trivial to be worthy of such an elaborate defence. If it be sufficiently important to demand a thorough reply, it is degrading to the serious character of the subject, it is trifling with the earnest and grave import of the question, to dress it up in the gewgaws and tawdry finery of a mere counter-irritant. Moreover, a reply in this shape too commonly necessitates such an adherence to the dramatic procedure and to the progression of sentiment adopted by the original work, that it places the replicant in a secondary position, and exhibits him in the false light of a mere imitator and plagiarist, by way of opposition, thus obviously yielding the vantage ground to the offender. If, however, the reply must be couched in the same form as the attack, the true picture to be delineated is not a mere representation of a real or imaginary state of beatitude enjoyed by fictitious slaves, but should be the portraiture of graver miseries, worse afflictions, and more horrible crimes familiar to the denizens of our Northern Cities, and incident to the condition of those societies where the much lauded white labor prevails. But the main cause of failure in the replies which have been attempted, and whose inefficacy has been injurious to the interests of the South, has unquestionably been that the real thesis of Uncle Tom's Cabin, whence most of its dangers, its pernicious sophistry, and its wicked delusion proceed, has not been recognized with adequate clearness, and has not been refuted in a suitable manner. It is this thesis which we propose to examine.
   The true and sufficient reply to this proposition is a very brief one. It is simply this, that the position is absolutely fatal to all human society—to all social organization, civilized or savage, whatever. It strikes at the very essence and existence of all community among men, it lays bare and roots up all the foundations of law, order and government. It is the very evangel of insubordination, sedition, and anarchy, and is promulgated in support of a cause worthy of the total ruin which it is calculated to produce. Pandemonium itself would be a paradise compared with what all society would become, if this apparently simple and plausible position were tenable, and action were accordingly regulated by it. Ate herself, hot from hell, could not produce more mischievous or incurable disorder than this little thesis, on which the whole insinuated argument of Uncle Tom's Cabin is founded, if this dogma were once generally or cordially received. In all periods of history—under all forms of government—under all the shifting phases of the social condition of man, instances of misery and barbarity equal to any depicted in this atrocious fiction, have been of constant recurrence, and, whatever changes may hereafter take place, unless the nature of man be also changed, they must continually recur until the very end of time. In thousands of instances, of almost daily occurrence, the affliction or the crime has sprung as directly from existing laws, manner, and institutions, as in the examples erroneously charged to the score of slavery in Uncle Tom's Cabin. But in all of them the real causes have been the innate frailties of humanity, the play of fortuitous circumstances, the native wickedness of particular individuals, and the inability of human wisdom or legislation to repress crime without incidentally ministering to occasional vices. If there be any latent truth in the dogma enforced by the nefarious calumnies of Uncle Tom's Cabin, it furnishes a stronger argument against all other departments of social organization than it does against slavery, as the records of our courts of justice and the inmates of our penitentiaries would testify. There is no felon who might not divest himself of his load of guilt, and extricate his neck from the halter, if such an argument was entitled to one moment's weight or consideration. In the complicated web of trials, difficulties and temptations, with which Providence in its wisdom has thought proper to intertwine the threads of human existence, an unbroken career of happiness or prosperity is not to be found. Every heart has its own sorrows,—every condition as every class its own perils and afflictions, and every individual his own bitter calamities to bewail. The very aptitude of this life for that state of probation which it was designed to be, depends upon the alternation and juxtaposition of weakness and virtue, of joy and misery, of gratifications and trials, of blessings and misfortunes, of adversity and prosperity. These varying shadows of our earthly career are due partly to the accidents by which we are surrounded, partly to the temper and conduct of our own hearts, but more than all to the concurrent or conflicting action of the members of the community among which our lot has been cast. The virtues of our neighbors may aid or encourage us, but their vices or their crimes may crush our hopes, ruin our fortunes, and entail irretrievable woe on our children as well as on ourselves. From this discord of fate it is our stern duty to educe the elements of our own career: beset with temptations, menaced by vicious intrigue, cheered by high examples or consoling counsel, but ever at the mercy of fortune, we must pursue our rough journey through the thorny paths of a world of trial. We cannot invent an Elysium or reclaim a Paradise: we can only turn to the utmost possible good the diverse conditions which encompass us around on all sides. It is only the insane hope of a frivolous and dreamy philanthropy to expect or wish that this order and variety of sublunary changes should be altered; as it is only the malignant hate of a splenetic and frenzied fanaticism which would venture to charge upon a particular institution, as its peculiar and characteristic vice, the common incidents of humanity in all times and under all its phases.
   It is no distinctive feature of the servile condition that individual members of the class should suffer most poignantly in consequence of the crimes, the sins, the follies, or the thoughtlessness of others;—that children should be torn from their parents, husbands separated from their wives, and fathers rudely snatched away from their families. The same results, with concomitant infamy, are daily produced by the operation of all penal laws, and the same anguish and distress are thereby inflicted upon the helpless and innocent, yet such laws remain and must remain upon our statute books for the security and conservation of any social organization at all. The ordinary play of human interests, of human duties, of human necessities, and even of human ambition—unnoticed and commonplace as it may be conceived to be, produces scenes more terrible and agony more poignant and heart-rending than any attributed to slavery in Uncle Tom's Cabin. The temptations of wordly advancement, the hopes of temporary success, the lures of pecuniary gain, in every civilized or barbarous community throughout the world—in the deserts of Sahara as amid the snows of Greenland—in the streets of Boston and Lowell as in those of London, Manchester, and Paris, may and do exhibit a longer register of sadder results than even a treacherous imagination, or fiction on the hunt for falsehood has been able to rake up from the fraudulent annals of slavery in the present work. There is scarcely one revolution of a wheel in a Northern or European cotton-mill, which does not, in its immediate or remote effects, entail more misery on the poor and the suffering than all the incidents of servile misery gathered in the present work from the most suspicious and disreputable sources. The annual balance sheet of a Northern millionaire symbolizes infinitely greater agony and distress in the labouring or destitute classes than even the foul martyrdom of Uncle Tom. Are the laws of debtor and creditor—and the processes by which gain is squeezed from the life-blood of the indigent, more gentle;—or the hard, grasping, demoniac avarice of a yankee trader more merciful than the atrocious heart of that fiendish yankee, Simon Legree? Was the famine in Ireland productive of no calamities which might furnish a parallel to the scenes in Uncle Tom's Cabin? We would hazard even the assertion that the Australian emigration from Great Britain, and the California migration in our country—both impelled by the mere hope of sudden and extraordinary gains, have been attended with crimes and vices, sorrows, calamities and distresses far surpassing the imaginary ills of the slaves whose fictitious woes are so hypocritically bemoaned. But such are the incidents of life, and we would neither denounce nor revolutionize society, because such consequences were inseparable from its continuance.

   It should be observed that the whole tenor of this pathetic tale derives most of its significance and colouring from a distorted representation or a false conception of the sentiments and feelings of the slave. It presupposes an identity of sensibilities between the races of the free and the negroes, whose cause it pretends to advocate. It takes advantage of this presumption, so unsuspiciously credited where slavery is unknown, to arouse sympathies for what might be grievous misery to the white man, but is none to the differently tempered black. Every man adapts himself and his feelings more or less to the circumstances of his condition: without this wise provision of nature life would be intolerable to most of us. Every race in like manner becomes habituated to the peculiar accidents of its particular class; even the Paria may be happy. Thus what would be insupportable to one race, or one order of society, constitutes no portion of the wretchedness of another. The joys and the sorrows of the slave are in harmony with his position, and are entirely dissimilar from what would make the happiness, or misery, of another class. It is therefore an entire fallacy, or a criminal perversion of truth, according to the motive of the writer, to attempt to test all situations by the same inflexible rules, and to bring to the judgment of the justice of slavery the prejudices and opinions which have been formed when all the characteristics of slavery are not known but imagined.
   The proposition, then, which may be regarded as embodying the peculiar essence of Uncle Tom's Cabin, is a palpable fallacy, and inconsistent with all social organization. Granting, therefore, all that could be asked by our adversaries, it fails to furnish any proof whatever of either the iniquity or the enormity of slavery. If it was capable of proving any thing at all, it would prove a great deal too much. It would demonstrate that all order, law, government, society was a flagrant and unjustifiable violation of the rights, and mockery of the feelings of man and ought to be abated as a public nuisance. The hand of Ishmael would thus be raised against every man, and every man's hand against him. To this result, indeed, both the doctrines and practices of the higher-law agitators at the North, and as set forth in this portentous book of sin, unquestionably tend: and such a conclusion might naturally be anticipated from their sanctimonious professions. The fundamental position, then, of these dangerous and dirty little volumes is a deadly blow to all the interests and duties of humanity, and is utterly impotent to show any inherent vice in the institution of slavery which does not also appertain to all other institutions whatever. But we will not be content to rest here: we will go a good bow-shot beyond this refutation, though under no necessity to do so; and we maintain that the distinguishing characteristic of slavery is its tendency to produce effects exactly opposite to those laid to its charge; to diminish the amount of individual misery in the servile classes; to mitigate and alleviate all the ordinary sorrows of life; to protect the slaves against want as well as against material and mental suffering; to prevent the separation and dispersion of families; and to shield them from the frauds, the crimes, and the casualties of others, whether masters or fellow-slaves, in a more eminent degree than is attainable under any other organization of society, where slavery does not prevail. This is but a small portion of the peculiar advantages to the slaves themselves resulting from the institution of slavery, but these suffice for the present, and furnish a most overwhelming refutation of the philanthropic twaddle of this and similar publications.

   Notwithstanding the furious and ill-omened outcry which has been made in recent years against the continuance of slavery, the communities where it prevails exhibit the only existing instance of a modern civilized society in which the interests of the labourer and the employer of labour are absolutely identical, and in which the reciprocal sympathies of both are assured. The consequence is that both interest and inclination, the desire of profit and the sense or sentiment of duty concur to render the slave-owner considerate and kind toward the slave. So general is the feeling, so habitual the consciousness of this intimate harmony of the interests and duties of both, that it has formed an efficient public sentiment at the South which brands with utter reprobation the slave-holder who is either negligent of his slaves or harsh in his treatment of them. It goes even further than this; it makes every man at the South the protector of the slave against injury by whomsoever offered, thus establishing an efficient and voluntary police, of which every one is a member , for the defence of the slave against either force, fraud, or outrage. Such habitual regard for the rights of a subordinate class generates in its members a kindliness of feeling and a deference of bearing to the slaveholder in general, which no severity could produce and no rigor maintain. It is this intercommunion of good offices and good will, of interests and obligations, which renders the realities of slavery at the South so entirely different from what they are imagined to be by those who have no intimate familiarity with its operation. Hence, too, in great measure it is, that, except where inveterate idleness or vice compels a sale, or the changes of fortune, or the casualties of life, break up an establishment, families are rarely dispersed, but are held together without being liable to those never-ending separations which are of daily occurrence with the labouring or other classes elsewhere. Even where the misfortunes of the owner necessitate a sale, if the negroes enjoy a respectable character, there is every possibility that they will never be removed from the district in which they have lived, but will either be bought with the place on which they have worked, be transferred en masse to some neighboring locality, or scattered about within easy distance of each other in the same vicinity.

   It is true that the continued agitation of the slavery question, and the nefarious practices of the abolitionists, which are so cordially eulogised in Uncle Tom's Cabin, have in some degree modified the relations between master and slave in those frontier settlements which border on the Ohio river, and have rendered imperative a harsher intercourse and more rigid management, than prevails where the feelings and principles of the negroes are not tampered with by incendiary missionaries. This is but one of the melancholy fruits of that philanthropical fanaticism, which injures by every movement which it makes those whom it pretends so sympathetically to serve.
   It is needless to repeat the evidence that the average condition of the slave at the South is infinitely superior, morally and materially, in all respects, to that of the labouring class under any other circumstances in any other part of the world. This has been done so frequently and efficiently before, that we need only refer to previous expositions of this point.

   If then all the facts alleged in Uncle Tom's Cabin, and entering into the composition of the pitiful tale, be conceded, they furnish no evidence whatever against the propriety or expediency of slavery. But, if the facts be false, what might have been error and delusion in the former case, becomes deliberate fraud and malignant slander. If they were true, we might pity the ignorance which had suffered itself to be perverted to crime by its ill-disposed credulity. If they are false, we must execrate the infamous virulence which fanatically employs falsehoods to breed dissension. If they were true, but did not legitimately minister to the purpose for which they ware introduced, we could not pardon the folly, the presumption, and the unchristian spirit, which used them to fan the flames of discord, and to stir up the embers of civil war. If they are false, the diabolical hate which presided over the composition of the work, and clothed itself in the tempting hues of tender charity and melting philanthropy, for the surer accomplishment of its infernal aims, stands revealed in all its caked deformity, seared with the brand of infamy, and blackened with the deep damnation of its guilt. It is Satan starting up from his disguise, in the monstrous proportions and with the Goodish visage of the prince of hell, at the presence of the angels of heaven, and the touch of the spear of truth. That the facts as stated and as intended to be received are false, we solemnly aver—and for the confirmation of this averment we confidently appeal to every resident in the South, who has dispassionately reflected upon his own experience and observation—whether he be slave-owner or not:—whether he be native, yankee immigrant, or foreigner. That the isolated statements may accidentally be true sub modo, we will not utterly deny : the range of fiction is wide, but the miracles of reality far surpass it: but that they are true under the colouring with which they are depicted we do absolutely gainsay, and inferences insinuated with the impressions designed to be produced are utterly fallacious in themselves, and are generated by a criminal desire to propagate a slander.

   We have so far endeavored to estimate this inflammatory publication with all possible sobriety and coolness: we have tempered our indignation as nearly as might be to philosophic impartiality: we have conceded all that is or could be asked in favor of Uncle Tom's Cabin; and yet we find, that even if its facts were true, they would not support the inference which the work is designed to convey, much lees justify the practices which it is intended to enforce. A libel is a libel still, notwithstanding the truth of its allegations, because it is calculated to disturb the peace of societies, and to destroy the harmony of any community. The ignorance of the libeller of the import or tendencies of his own language will remove neither the penalty nor the guilt, because the injury inflicted is not diminished thereby, and the public danger is not mitigated by the plea of folly. When, then, Uncle Tom's Cabin employs representations of Southern slavery, even if supposed to be true, which are calculated not merely to wound and outrage the feelings of Southerners, which would be comparatively a slight offence, but to pander to malignant prejudices, to disseminate throughout the Union dissensions and hostilities, and to circulate scandal abroad throughout the world, neither sincerity nor ignorance would afford any palliation for the rash, foolish, and criminal procedure. It is a caution frequently given to children, not to meddle with edge-tools, and if weak women or other persons of mature years but immature discretion, venture to engage in seditious pursuits, knowing the aim but ignorant of the character of the means, they must pay the penalty.

   But, if truth be deliberately wrested to wrong; if facts are accurately stated for the sake of veiling with the semblance of truth doctrines known to be dangerous, and intended to generate social disorder and political ruin, the sin of treacherous hypocrisy is substituted for, or is added to the weakness of ignorant temerity. The vestments of an angel of light are thrown around the body of a fiend; the wolf has assumed the clothing of the sheep, that it may more successfully prey upon the innocent and delude the shepherd. Shall we exonerate Uncle Tom's Cabin from such deep-dyed hypocrisy? Almost every page shows that however it may revel in the altitudes of an ideal perfection, the practices inculcated and the cause espoused by it, are at variance with all law, order, and government, with solemn oaths and established obligations, with the well-being of society, and with the perpetuity of the Union. Is either simplicity or fanaticism any excuse for that mole-eyed blindness, which fancies it sees afar off the duty of so organized crusade to conquer a disputed point of morale or social economy, and yet cannot behold the ever present obligation to perform those common duties of life which lie at the foundation of all social and political communion? Is it not either wilful hypocrisy or deliberate perversity, when a solitary crotchet of sentimental morality is conceived to transcend all the commandments of the decalogue, all the prescriptions of the Bible, and all the laws of man? Yet all this is done,—purposely, systematically, continually, and malignantly done in that immaculate encyclopaedia of fictitious crimes—Uncle Tom's Cabin. The commandment inscribed by the finger of God on the tablets of stone which Moses bore to the Israelites as the everlasting will of Jehovah, burns in our eyes in characters of flame while perusing this intricate tissue of deception. THOU SHALT NOT BEAR FALSE WITNESS AGAINST THY NEIGHBOUR.
   This, however, is by no means the sole violation of the Decalogue which is committed by the book, but it is the most prominent. Of the others we have scarcely the patience, and we have very little inclination to speak. Yet all the commandments relative to the duties of mankind to each other are frequently and systematically contravened, with the significant exception of that against adultery, which was not a very delicate prescription for a lady to handle, although she does assiduously endeavor to assert its habitual disregard in the South by slave-owners towards their female slaves. We will not disavow the existence of vice where it may be proved to exist, nor will we defend it under any circumstances, but if the author of Uncle Tom's Cabin had been as well read in the annals of prostitution in countries where slavery does not exist, or, supposing her to have the information, had she been as much disposed is reveal the facts that might be discovered on this head with regard to the virtuous practices of Boston, Philadelphia, and New York, as she is ingenious in the imagination of fictitious seductions, and inclined to transmute a dirty fancy into an alleged truth, she might have found that there was neither any very great peculiarity nor any very remarkable excess in Southern practices in this respect.

   The essence of murder according to the laws of all nations and the public sentiment of all periods lies in the taking, contrary to law, and with malice prepense, the life of a rational fellow-creature. Unless the definition be altered entirely and the moral principles of mankind be changed, murder is distinctly prescribed and applauded both by the precept and example of this book.

   There is one sin which is justly regarded as the most despicable and debasing in the catalogue of crimes—the sin of perjury. Yet this is deliberately commended by this new missionary of the higher law.

   It has always been esteemed the dory of good men and the pride of patriots to obey the solemn laws and uphold the institutions of their country. The whole tenor of these would-be immaculate volumes is directed to the subversion of both.

   The Bible is either blasphemously mocked by the infidel, or reverently received by the Christian: but here with professions of more than Christian sanctity, its doctrines are distorted or disavowed, and its ministers maligned.

   It is easy for even sincere fanaticism to rue ignorantly and precipitately into the practice or palliation of crime; but in this instance the fanaticism clothes itself with the raiment of a pretended impartiality, and feigns justice the better to effectuate iniquity. There is an obvious discord between the professions and the purposes, the sentimentalism and the precepts of Uncle Tom's Cabin, which can scarcely permit us to withhold from it the charge of deliberate hypocrisy.



Uncle Tomitudes
  Here is a miracle! or something, at least, that has not happened before, and consequently, for which the world was not prepared; for the belief of King Solomon still prevails, that nothing will be which has not already been, and every new thing is incredible until it has been duplicated. Uncle Tom, therefore, is a miracle, his advent had not been foreseen nor foretold, and nobody believes in him now that he has come, and made good his claim to be considered somebody. But, Uncle Tom's superiors were not believed in at first, and he can well afford to bide his time.

  Never since books were first printed has the success of Uncle Tom been equalled; the history of literature contains nothing parallel to it, nor approaching it; it is, in fact, the first real success in book-making, for all other successes in literature were failures when compared with the success of Uncle Tom. And it is worth remembering that this first success in a field which all the mighty men of the earth have labored in, was accomplished by an American woman. Who reads an American book, did you inquire, Mr. Smith? Why, your comfortable presence should have been preserved in the world a year or two longer, that you might have asked, as you would have done, "who does not?"
  There have been a good many books which were considered popular on their first appearance, which were widely read and more widely talked about. But, what were they all, compared with Uncle Tom, whose honest countenance now overshadows the reading world, like the dark cloud with a silver lining. Don Quixote was a popular book on its first coming out, and so was Gil Blas, and Richardson's Pamela, and Fielding's Tom Jones, and Hannah More's Coelebs, and Gibbon's Decline and Fall; and so were the Vicar of Wakefield, and Rasselas, and the Tale of a Tub, and Evelina, the Lady of the Lake, Waverley, the Sorrows of Werter, Childe Harold, the Spy, Pelham, Vivian Grey, Pickwick, the Mysteries of Paris, and Macaulay's History. These are among the most famous books that rose suddenly in popular esteem on their first appearance, but the united sale of the whole of them, within the first nine months of their publication, would not equal the sale of Uncle Tom in the same time.

  But this success does not, by any means, argue that Uncle Tom is superior to all other books; but it is an unmistakable indication that it is a live book, and that it will continue to live when many other books which have been pronounced immortal, shall be dead and buried in an oblivion, from which there is no resurrection.

  Uncle Tom is not only a miracle of itself, but it announces the commencement of a miraculous Era in the literary world. A dozen years ago, Uncle Tom would have been a comparative failure—there might not have been more than a million copies sold in the first year of its publication. Such a phenomenon as its present popularity could have happened only in the present wondrous age. It required all the aid of our new machinery to produce the phenomenon, our steam-presses, steam-ships, steam-carriages, iron roads, electric telegraphs, and universal peace among the reading nations of the earth. But beyond all, it required the readers to consume the books, and these have never before been so numerous, the next year, they will be more numerous still, and Uncle Tom may be eclipsed by the shadow of a new comer in the reading world. It is not Uncle Tom alone who has made the way for himself; the road to popularity has been preparing for him, ever since the birth of Cadmus; he has only proclaimed the fact that the great avenues of literature are all open, wide, and well paved, and free to all who have the strength to travel in them. Hereafter, the book which does not circulate to the extent of a million copies, will be regarded as a failure. What the first edition of a popular novel will be by-and-by, when the telegraphic wires will be printing it simultaneously, in New-York, St. Petersburg, San Francisco, Pekin and the intermediate cities, it is not easy to estimate. Then, when an international copyright shall secure the whole world to the popular author, for his market, authorship, we imagine, will be a rather more lucrative employment than it happens to be at present. The possibility of such a time does not appear half so improbable now, as the actualities of Uncle Tom would have sounded in the earlier days of the Edinburgh Review.

  It is but nine months since this Iliad of the blacks, as an English reviewer calls Uncle Tom, made its appearance among books, and already its sale has exceeded a million of copies; author and publisher have made fortunes out of it, and Mrs. Stowe, who was before unknown, is as familiar a name in all parts of the civilized world as that of Homer or Shakspeare. Nearly two hundred thousand copies of the first edition of the work have been sold in the United States, and the publishers say they are unable to meet the growing demand. The book was published on the 20th of last March, and on the 1st of December there had been sold one hundred and twenty thousand sets of the edition in two volumes, fifty thousand copies of the cheaper edition in one, and three thousand copies of the costly illustrated edition. The publishers have kept four steam-presses running, night and day, Sundays only excepted, and at double the ordinary speed, being equal to sixteen presses worked ten hours a day at the usual speed. They keep two hundred hands constantly employed in binding Uncle Tom, and he has consumed five thousand reams of white paper, weighing seventy-five tons. They have paid to the author twenty thousand three hundred dollars as her share of the profits on the actual cash sales of the first nine months. But it is in England where Uncle Tom has made his deepest mark. Such has been the sensation produced by the book there, and so numerous have been the editions published, that it is extremely difficult to collect the statistics of its circulation, with a tolerable degree of exactness. But we know of twenty rival editions in England and Scotland, and that millions of copies have been produced. Bentley has placed it among his standard novels. Routledge issues a handsome edition of it with a preface by the Earl of Carlisle; and this virtuous nobleman, with the blood of all the Howards in his veins, sees nothing out of the way in venting his indignation against American Slavery, in the preface of a book which is stolen from its author and published without her consent. Bentley also tacks on an "indignant preface" to his edition, but it is stated that he gives a per centage on the sale to the author, which gives him a right to be indignant, if he chooses. But the Earl of Carlisle and Routledge might have reserved their indignation against slavery, it strikes us, until they had taken to honest courses themselves. Another publisher in London issues an edition and proposes to share profits with the author; while a penny subscription has been got up as a testimonial to her from all the readers of the work in Great Britain and Ireland. We have seen it stated that there were thirty different editions published in London, within six months of the publication of the work here, and one firm keeps four hundred men employed in printing and binding it. There have been popular editions published also; in Edinburgh and in Glasgow; and it has been dramatized and produced on the boards of nearly every theatre in the Kingdom. Uncle Tom was played in six different theatres in London at the same time. An illustrated edition is now publishing in London by a bookseller named Cassell, the illustrations being furnished by the famous and inimitable George Cruikshank. The same publisher has issued an Uncle Tom Almanac, with designs by some of the most eminent artists of London. The whole Beecher family, of which Mrs. Stowe is a member, have been glorified in the English periodicals, and are exciting as much attention just now, as the Napoleonic family, to which they bear great resemblance; one being a family of Kings and Queens, and the other of preachers and authors—sovereigns in the intellectual world.
  Uncle Tom was not long in making his way across the British Channel, and four rival editions are claiming the attention of the Parisians, one under the title of le Pere Tom, and another of la Case de l'Oncle Tom. But the fresh racy descriptions of the author, lose their vigor and force when rendered into French, though the interest of the narrative remains. The book reads better in German than in French, and makes a deeper impression on the Teuton than upon the Gallic mind.

  The Allgemein Zeitung, of Augsburg, says of it in the course of a long review:

"We confess that in the whole modern romance literature of Germany, England and France, we know of no novel to be called equal to this. In comparison with this glowing eloquence, that never fails of its purpose, this wonderful truth to nature, the largeness of these ideas, and the artistic faultlessness of the machinery in this book, George Sand, with her Spiridion and Claudie, appears to us untrue and artificial; Dickens, with his but too faithful pictures from the popular life of London, petty; Bulwer, hectic and self-conscious. It is like a sign of warning from the New World to the Old. In recent times a great deal has been said about an intervention of the youthful American Republic in the affairs of Europe. In literature, the symptoms of such an intellectual intervention are already perceptible."
  This is rather stronger praise, than any of the French critics have bestowed upon Uncle Tom, one of whom thinks it inferior to Hildreth's Archy Moore. But Mrs. Stowe's epic is more read in Paris, just now, than any other book, and it is said to have a greater success than any similar production since the publication of Paul and Virginia.

  Uncle Tom has found its way into Italy, where there are more American travellers than American books. Our charge, at Sardinia, reports that it is making its mark there, as in other parts of Europe, in a manner that astonishes the people. Two editions in Italian have been published in Turin, and one of the daily papers was publishing it as a feuilleton, after the manner of the Paris press.

  What progress Uncle Tom has made in the other northern nations of Europe, in Russia, Sweden, Denmark, Poland and Lapland, we have not been informed; but it is undoubtedly drawing its tears from the eyes of the hyperboreans, as well as from the inhabitants of the mild south. India and Mexico, and South America, have yet to be Uncle Tomitized, for we have not heard of any editions of Mrs. Stowe's great romance among the descendants of the Aztecs, the Gauchos, or the Brazilians. It must spread over the whole earth, like the cholera, only reversing its origin and the order of its progress. One of our newspaper critics compares the Uncle Tomific, which the reading world is now suffering from, to the yellow fever, which does not strike us as a very apt comparison, because the yellow fever is confined wholly to tropical climes, while Uncle Tom, like the cholera, knows no distinction of climate or race. He is bound to go; and future generations of Terra-del Fuegians and Esquimaux, will be making Christmas presents at this season of the year, of Uncle Tom's Cabin in holiday bindings.
  Not the least remarkable among the phenomena that have attended the publication of Uncle Tom has been the numerous works written expressly to counteract the impressions which the book was supposed likely to make. This is something entirely new in literature. It is one of the most striking testimonials to the intrinsic merit of the work that it should be thought necessary to neutralize its influence by issuing other romances to prove that Uncle Tom is a fiction. Nothing of the kind was ever before deemed necessary. When Mrs. Radcliffe was bewitching the novel-reading world with her stories of haunted Castles there were no romances written to prove that ruined Castles were not haunted. But Uncle Tom had scarcely seen the light when dozens of steel pens were set at work to prove him an imposter, and his author an ignoramus. Some dozens of these anti-Uncle Tom romances have been published and many more of them remain in obscure manuscript. We have had the pleasure of looking over a score or two, which were seeking a publisher, and nearly all of them were written by women, upon the principle of similia similibus. The writer of one of these unpublished anti-Tom novels had made a calculation, the innocent ingenuity of which tickled our very midriff. She had ascertained that one hundred and fifty thousand copies of Uncle Tom's Cabin had been sold, and she calculated that every reader of that romance would be anxious to hear the other side of the story of domestic slavery, and her romance being the silver lining of the Southern institution, she came to a publisher with a modest proposal based upon a certain sale of one hundred and fifty thousand copies of her work. But this good lady had not made a greater mistake than the majority of our reviewers who have assumed that the "golden joys" of Mrs. Stowe's authorship were all owing to her having sung of Africa. Most unaccountably they imagine that it is the subject, and not the manner of its treatment, that has fascinated the reading public. But a more effete subject, one of which the public were more heartily wearied, which was more unwelcome to ears polite than that of slavery, it would not have been easy to select. Whoever touched it was sure of that cruelest of all martyrdoms contemptuous neglect. The martyr age of anti-slavery, as Harriet Martineau called it, had passed away, and the more fatal age of indifference and contempt had succeeded. The public had been inundated and surfeited with anti-slavery sentiment in all possible forms, from the fierce denunciations of the Pilsbury Garrison school, down to the mild objurgations of Lucretia Mott. Every possible form of literary composition and pictorial embellishment had been devoted to the subject, and no one either needed, or desired, any further enlightenment about it, when Uncle Tom's Cabin was announced to the world of novel readers. The chances were a thousand to one against the success of the book. And yet it has succeeded beyond all other books that were ever written. And the cause is obvious; but, because it was obvious and lay upon the surface, it has been overlooked, there being an opinion among most men that truth must lie a long way out of reach.

  "When I am reading a book," says Dean Swift, in his Thoughts on Various Subjects, "whether wise or silly, it seems to me to be alive and talking to me." This is the secret of the success of Uncle Tom's Cabin; it is a live book, and it talks to its readers as if it were alive. It first awakens their attention, arrests their thoughts, touches their sympathies, rouses their curiosity, and creates such an interest in the story it is telling, that they cannot let it drop until the whole story is told. And this is done, not because it is a tale of slavery, but in spite of it. If it were the story of a Russian Serf, an evicted Milesian, a Manchester weaver, or an Italian State prisoner, the result would be the same. It is the consummate art of the story teller that has given popularity to Uncle Tom's Cabin, and nothing else. The anti-slavery sentiment obtruded by the author in her own person, upon the notice of the reader, must be felt by every one, to be the great blemish of the book; and it is one of the proofs of its great merits as a romance, that it has succeeded in spite of this defect. If Mrs. Stowe would permit some judicious friend to run his pen through these excrescences, and to obliterate a flippant attempt at Picwickian humor, here and there, Uncle Tom's Cabin would be a nearly perfect work of art, and would deserve to be placed by the side of the greatest romances the world has known. It has often been spoken of by critics as deficient in artistic ability, but it is to its masterly construction, or artistic quality, that it is indebted for its popularity. The over-plus of popularity given to the work by its anti-slavery sentiment is not much greater than the loss of readers from the same source; but the evangelical sentiment of the book, the conversions to holiness through the influence of Uncle Tom's preaching, which the London Times cavilled at, is a greater cause of its popularity with the religious classes, we imagine, than the anti-slavery sentiment which it contains. For the religious sentiment of Uncle Tom is in strict accordance with the theology of nine-tenths of the Christian world. In all the great requisites of a romance it is decidedly superior to any other production of an American pen.
  There are not, in Uncle Tom's Cabin, any of the delicacies of language which impart so great a charm to the writings of Irving and Hawthorne, nor any descriptions of scenery such as abound in the romances of Cooper, nor any thing like the bewildering sensuousness of Typee Melville; but there are broader deeper, higher and holier sympathies than can be found in our other romances, finer delineations of character, a wider scope of observation, a more purely American spirit, and a more vigorous narrative faculty. We can name no novel, after Tom Jones, that is superior to Uncle Tom in constructive ability. The interest of the narrative begins in the first page and is continued with consummate skill to the last. In this respect Thackeray is the first of contemporary English novelists, and Bulwer deserves the next mention. But the commencement of all of Thackeray's stories is dull and uninviting, while Bulwer, who opens briskly, and excites the attention of the reader in the beginning, flags and grows dull at the close. Mrs. Stowe, like Fielding, seizes upon the attention at the outset, and never lets it go for a moment until the end. It matters not by what means this is done, it is the chief object aimed at by the romancer, and the greatest artist is he who does it in the most effectual manner; if the writer of fiction fails in this point, he fails altogether. And the same may be said of every other writer; the mind must first be amused before it can be instructed.

  In no other American book that we have read, are there so many well-delineated American characters; the greater part of them are wholly new in fiction. The mischievous little imp Topsy, is a sort of infantine Caliban, and all the other darkies are delineated with wonderful skill and freedom; and each page of the book is like a cartoon of charcoal sketches. It as been objected to Uncle Tom, that all the whites are impossibly wicked, and all the blacks are impossibly good. But nothing could be further from the truth than such an assertion; the most amiable of the characters are some of the slave owners, while the most degraded and vile are, of course, the slaves. There is no partisanship apparent in the narrative proper, and if the author did not, occasionally, address the reader in her own person, greatly to her own prejudice, we should hardly suspect her of anti-slavery leanings.

  An ingenious writer in the Literary World has done Mrs. Stowe the favor to point out an instance of undeniable, but, we presume, unconscious plagiarism, on her part, for which she should feel herself under great obligations to him. He proves pretty clearly, that the weakest part of Uncle Tom has been borrowed from Mrs. Sherwood. Little Eva is, unquestionably, nothing more than an adaptation of the Little Henry of the English lady; and, for our own part, we think it very creditable to Mrs. Stowe that such is the case. The little Nells, little Pauls, little Henrys, and little Evas, are a class of people for which we care but little. Dickens has much to answer for in popularizing the brood of little impossibilities, who are as destitute of the true qualities of childhood as the crying babies which are hung up in the windows of toy-shops. One Topsy is worth a dozen little Evas. But it is a proof of the genius of the author, that every character she introduces into her story is invested with such a distinct individuality that we remember it as a new acquaintance, and feel a strong interest in its fate.

  We have heard of almost innumerable instances of the power of Uncle Tom, but one of the finest compliments that has been ever paid to its fascinations was from a Southern Senator and a slave-holder. Somebody had persuaded him to read the book, and, on being asked what he thought of it, he merely replied that he should be very sorry for his wife to read it. A friend of ours was sleeping one night in a strange house, and being annoyed by hearing somebody in the adjoining chamber alternately groaning and laughing, he knocked upon the wall and said, "Hello, there! What's the matter! Are you sick, or reading Uncle Tom's Cabin?" The stranger replied that he was reading Uncle Tom.

  Apart from all considerations of the subject, or motive, of Uncle Tom's Cabin, the great success of the book shows what may be accomplished by American authors who exercise their genius upon American subjects. Imitations of foreign and classical literature, though equal to the originals, will not command success. The American author or artist who is ambitious of success must confine himself to the illustration of American subjects. Cooper made his first essay upon foreign ground and failed. He then came back to America, with no better talent than he carried abroad, and succeeded, having first secured a reputation by the use of a home subject, and then succeeded with foreign materials. But Irving always wrote as an American even when his theme was foreign. There is yet remaining an uncultivated but rich field for American genius. Our first novel of society has yet to be written. We are daily looking for the appearance of our native novelist who shall take his place by the side of Irving, of Cooper, of Melville, and Hawthorne, and Mrs. Stowe. Like the sister of Fatima, we can see a cloud in the distance, but we cannot make out the form of the approaching genius. There are steam-presses and paper-mills now erecting to welcome him. Our aborigines, and sailors, and transcendentalists, and heroes, and slaves, have all had their lliad, but our men and women of society are yet looking for their Bulwer, or their Thackeray.
  Some of the foreign correspondents of our daily papers, in commenting on the popularity of Uncle Tom in Europe, account for it by saying that the English are glad of an opportunity to circulate a book which shows up our country to disadvantage. But we do not perceive the force of this argument. We do not think that any degree of hatred to our institutions could induce the people of Great Britain to read a dull book. Besides, there have been dozens of books published about slavery, which throw Uncle Tom's Cabin completely in the shade in their pictures of our domestic institutions. In fact, Mrs. Stowe's book gives a much more agreeable picture of Southern slavery than any of the works we have seen which profess to give the right side of the tapestry. A desire to degrade America surely cannot be the reason why the representation of dramatic scenes in Uncle Tom have proved so attractive in our own theatres. For our part, we think that the actual effect of Mrs. Stowe's romance will be to create a much more indulgent and forgiving spirit towards the people of the South than has prevailed in England heretofore. Our last presidential election certainly did not afford any reason to believe that the minds of our countrymen had been at all influenced by Mrs. Stowe's enchantments.



Art. III.— UNCLE TOM'S CABIN
  1. "Uncle Tom's Cabin, or Life among the Lowly." By HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.

  2. Westminster Review.—July, 1852.—Contemporary Literature of America.

  TRULY it would seem that the labour of Sisyphus is laid upon us, the slaveholders of these southern United States. Again and again have we, with all the power and talent of our clearest heads and strongest intellects, forced aside the foul load of slander and villanous aspersion so often hurled against us, and still, again and again, the unsightly mass rolls back, and, heavily as ever, fall the old refuted libels, vamped, remodelled, and lumbering down upon us with all the force, or at least impudent assumption, of new argument. We anticipate here the answer and application of our charitable opponents. We, too, have studied our mythology, and remember well, that the aforesaid Sisyphus was condemned to his torment for the sins of injustice, oppression and tyranny. Like punishment to like sin, will, no doubt, be their corollary. Boldly, however, before God and man, we dare hold up our hand and plead "not guilty." Clearly enough do we see through the juggle of this game. It is no hand of destiny, no fiat of Jove, which rolls back upon us the labouring bulk. There is an agent behind the curtain, vulnerable at least as ourselves; and the day may yet come when, if this unlucky game cease not, the destructive mass shall find another impetus, and crush beneath its unexpected weight, the hand which now directs it, we scarce know whether in idle wantonness or diabolic malice.

  Among the revelations of this passing year, stand prominent the volumes we are about to review. In the midst of political turmoil, Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe has determined to put her finger in the pot, and has, it would seem, made quite a successful dip. Wordy philanthropy, which blows the bellows for discontent, and sends poor fools wandering through the clouds upon its treacherous breezes, yet finds no crumb of bread for one hungry stomach, is at a high premium now-a-days. Ten thousand dollars (the amount, it is said, of the sales of her work) was, we presume, in the lady's opinion, worth risking a little scalding for. We wish her joy of her ten thousand thus easily gained, but would be loath to take with it the foul imagination which could invent such scenes, and the malignant bitterness (we had almost said ferocity) which, under the veil of christian charity, could find the conscience to publish them. Over this, their new-laid egg, the abolitionists, of all colours,—black, while, and yellow,—foreign and domestic,—have set up so astounding a cackle, it is very evident, that (labouring, perhaps, under some mesmeric biologic influence) they think the goose has laid its golden egg at last. They must wake up from their dream, to the sad disappointment of finding their fancied treasure an old addle thing, whose touch contaminates with its filth.
  There is nothing new in these volumes. They are, as we have said, only the old Sisyphus rock, which we have so often tumbled over, tinkered up, with considerable talent and cunning, into a new shape, and rolled back upon us. One step, indeed, we do seem to have gained. One accusation at least, which, in bygone times, used to have its changes rung among the charges brought against us, is here forgotten. We see no reference to the old habit, so generally (according to some veracious travellers) indulged in these Southern States, of fattening negro babies for the use of the soup-pot. This, it would appear, is a species of black broth which cannot be swallowed any longer. If, however, Mrs. Stowe has spared us the story of this delectable soup, with the small nigger paws floating in it by way of garnish, truly it is all that she has spared us. Libels almost as shocking to humanity, she not only indulges herself in detailing, but dwells upon with a gusto and a relish quite edifying to us benighted heathen, who, constantly surrounded (as according to her statements we are) by such moving scenes and crying iniquities, yet, having ear, bear not, and having eyes, see not those horrors whose stench become an offence to the nostrils of our sensitive and self constituted directors.

  Most painful it is to us to comment upon a work of this kind. What though "our withers be unwrung!" Does slander cease to be painful because it is gross? Is it enough for us to know that these obscene and degrading scenes are false as the spirit of mischief which dictated them and can we, therefore, indifferently see these loathsome rakings of a foul fancy passed as current coin upon the world, which receives them as sketches of American life by an American citizen? We cannot; and loathsome as is the task; little as we hope to be heard in any community where such a work can be received and accredited, and where the very fact of such reception proves at once that our case is prejudged; yet will we speak and sift the argument of this fair lady, who so protests against vice that we might think her, like that "noble sister of Publicola," that "moon of Rome"
"Chaste as the icicle
That's cruded by the frost from purest snow,
And hangs on Dian's temple,"
were it not that her too vivid imagination, going so far ahead of facts, shows too clearly, that not now, for the first time, does it travel the muddy road. Some hints from the unfortunately fashionable reading of the day—some flashes from the French school of romance—some inspirations from the Sues and the Dumas', have evidently suggested the tenor of her pages.

  The literary taste of our day (i. e. the second-rate literary taste; the fashionable novel-reading taste) demands excitement. Nothing can be spiced too high. Incident, incident, and that of the vilest kind, crowds the pages of those novels which are now unfortunately all the vogue. The "Mysteries of Paris," "Monte Cristo," the "Wandering Jew," et id genus omne, leave the diseased taste of the reader, who has long subsisted on such fare, sick, sick and palled as it is with the nauseous diet, still, with a constant craving, like that of the diseased palate of the opium eater, for its accustomed drug. For such tastes, Mrs. Stowe has catered well. Her facts are remarkable facts—very. Let us see on what authority she bases them. This is a question worth examining, as she here assumes to have given us an exhibition of slavery in its "living dramatic reality." In her "concluding remarks," appended to the second volume of the edition (seventh thousand) which we have, she says:

  "The writer has often been enquired of by correspondents from different parts of the country, whether this narrative is a true one; and to these enquiries she will give one general answer. The separate incidents which compose her narrative, are, to a very great extent, authentic, occurring, many of them, under her own observation, or that of her personal friends. She or her friends have observed characters the counterpart of almost all that are here introduced; and many of the sayings are word for word, as heard herself, or reported to her."
  We can only say, in answer to this, that "she and her friends" are far from being, in our minds, decisive authority. If she says "it is," just as emphatically do we answer "it is not." What vender of falsehood but vouches for the truth of his own fabrications? She tells us,

  "Some of the most deeply tragic and romantic, some of the most terrible incidents, have also their parallel in reality."

  And again, of one of her most horrible inventions, she remarks:

  "That this scene has too many times had its parallel, there are living witnesses all over our land to testify."

  Living witnesses, all over our land, are such intangible antagonists that it would be a worse combat than that of Don Quixotte against the wind-mills, for us to undertake them, and therefore we must let them pass. One stray sheep, however, she does introduce, and as we cannot be cheated, by the clouds of dust she has kicked up, to mistake him for a giant, we will not need to encounter him, the courage exhibited by the celebrated Don in his attack upon a flock of the same animals. She says, with reference to a story of brutal persecution and slow murder,

  "The story of old Prue, in the second volume, was an incident that fell under the personal observation of a brother of the writer, then collecting clerk to a large mercantile house in New Orleans. From the same source was derived the character of the planter, Legree. Of him, her brother thus wrote, speaking of visiting his plantation on a collecting tour: 'He actually made me feel of his fist, which was like a blacksmith's hammer, or a nodule of iron, telling me that it was 'calloused with knocking down niggers.' When I left the plantation I drew a long breath, and felt as if I had escaped from an ogre's den.'"

  Tho testimony of this brother is the only one which she cites, except in the general "all over the land" style, which we have noticed; and we think any one who has spent spent six months of his life in a southern city will recognize the type of this her solitary authority. Who has not seen the green Yankee youth opening his eyes and mouth for every piece of stray intelligence; eager for horrors; gulping the wildest tales, and exaggerating even as he swallows them? 

Why, this fellow is to be met with in every ship-load of candidates for clerkships who come out like bees to suck our honey; but so choke-full the while, of all they have heard of the horrors and dangers incident to these latitudes, that they wink their eyes and dodge a fancied pistol or bowie-knife, whenever a man but raises his hand to touch his hat to the stranger. Having made up their minds that Southerners are all brutes, what earthly power can cure the moral near-sight? Not reason, certainly, nor fact either. Their school dame taught it to them with their catechism; and surely those green eyes could never be expected to see across the catechism and the school dame's teachings far enough to learn the truth. Pity that this gentle Balaam of a brother had not possessed a little of the cunning and courage of those favourite heroes of our childish days, "Puss in Boots," and "Jack the Giant Killer," that he might have decisively disposed of this redoubtable ogre with nodules of iron hands, instead of sneaking out of his den and leaving him there, like a great "Giant Despair," to devour all unfortunate pilgrims who fell in his way. How poor Balaam summoned courage to feel of that fist, "calloused with knocking down niggers," we can-not imagine. Verily, there are trials by land, and trials by water, and poor Balaam, apparently, cared not to put his delicate person in danger from any of them. Seriously, is it not easy here to perceive that a raw, suspicious Yankee youth having "happened" (as he would say) in contact with a rough overseer, a species of the genus homo evidently quite new to him, has been half gulled by the talk of the fellow who has plainly intended to quiz him, and has half gulled himself with his own fears while in the vicinity of this novel character, whom he, poor gentle specimen of Yankee humanity, has absolutely mistaken for an ogre, because his hand is hard. That the fellow himself made the speech quoted by Balsam, viz., that his fist was "calloused by knocking down niggers," we more than doubt—that elegant word "calloused" being one entirely new to our dictionary, and savouring, we think, much more of Yankee-clerk origin and Noah Webster, than of Southern birth.
  Upon the whole, the authorities of our authoress put us in mind of one of our earliest trials in life. Our first entrance upon school being made in one of our Northern cities, we found ourselves, before the first week of probation was over, the object of some comment among the younger members of the establishment, and were finally accused, by the leader of the little faction, of coming from the land of negro-dom. To this charge, we, of course, could but plead guilty, wondering, in our little mind, what sin there could be in the association. A portion of our iniquities we soon had revealed to us. "Father's cousin's wife's sister was at the South once, and she knows all about how you treat your negroes! She knows that you feed them with cotton-seed, and put padlocks on their mouths to keep them from eating corn while they are in the field." Vainly we protested; as vainly reasoned. Authority was against us, and the pad-lock story vouched by "father's cousin's wife's sister, a very nice lady, that always told the truth," was swallowed by the majority, and received in our Lilliput community with as undisputed credence as Mrs. Stowe's brother's account of the fist "calloused by knocking down niggers" will be gulped down by her admirers. A lady-friend of ours, travelling northward a summer or two since, was similarly enlightened as to some of the iniquities constantly practiced round us, but which, blinded creatures that we are, we have to leave home to discover. Miss C., she was informed, had a cousin who had gone school-keeping to Georgia, and that cousin told Miss C., on her word, as a lady, that she had often and often seen baskets full of ears and noses cut and pulled from the negroes by way of punishment and torture. Miss C. couldn't say whether they were big baskets or little ones; she supposed they were not very big ones, because the supply of ears and noses would be exhausted, and she did not suppose it was a case to call for miraculous increase. She could not account for it all exactly, but she knew that it was true—she did. Her cousin was a lady, and had seen it herself. Pity it is that Mrs. Stowe bad not made acquaintance with Miss C.'s cousin; the ears and noses would have made a fine picturesque point, graphically introduced among her "dramatic realities." The Balaam brother, however, seems to answer her purpose pretty well, and upon his testimony about the nodule-fisted gentleman, and some enlightenments from a speech of the freesoil Massachusetts Senator, Horace Mann, she has manufactured a character which would shame the Caliban of Shakspeare. That great master of the human mind, when he imagined a being devoid of all human feeling and yet possessed of something like human form, remembered that, in the wildest flights of imagination, there must still be kept up a semblance of probability, and painted him, therefore, free also from human parentage. Shakspeare's Caliban was a monster of devilish origin, to whom Sycorax, his dam, bequeathed but little of humanity. Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, however, gives to her Caliban a human mother; a gentle, fair-haired, loving mother, and does not shame to pass upon us as a man—this beast, this brute—without conscience and without heart—devoid equally of common sense and common feeling.
  The Westminster Review, in noticing, with high approbation, these volumes of Mrs. Stowe, takes upon itself to pronounce that she has therein exhibited the "concealed realities" of the system of slavery, "without falling either into vulgarity or exaggeration." The opportunities of the writers of the Westminster to judge of our habits and manners, must, we should suppose, be small; and whence they may have received the capacity for so dogmatically determining the point at issue, we cannot well guess. Simple assertion is easily answered by counter-assertion. We assert that there is in this dramatic sample of abolitionism, not only vulgarity and exaggeration, but gross vulgarity and absolute falsehood. The Westminster goes on to remark of this infamous libel upon our people, that the "darkest part of it is possible within the law," that "the slave-code authorizes these very enormities," and, therefore, whether these things be true or not, it is the "privilege of the artist" so to represent them. We answer, that such transactions are not possible within the law; that murder of the slave is equally punishable with murder of the free man; that the slave-code does not authorize these enormities; that our laws protect, as far as legislation can, the very beast from cruelty and barbarous treatment. How much more the slave! Cruelty cannot always be prevented. The parent may ill-treat his child; the man his wife, without giving tangible cause for prosecution. But where such cause can be found, an individual may with us, precisely as in any other well-governed country, be indicted for unjust oppression of any kind, whether of beast, of child, or of slave. The public feeling with us is, we believe, as delicate, and as much on the alert upon such points, as in any part of the world. Indeed, the existence of a system of slavery rather tends to increase than diminish this feeling, as, leaving a larger portion of society in a state of tutelage, naturally and necessarily greater attention is turned to the subject. If, therefore, the shadow of such enormities as these volumes describe may sometimes be, we deny that it is "the artist's privilege" to cull out the most horrible exceptional cases, and to represent them as forming the manners and habits of a whole people, vouching for them as fac simile representations of real life. What would the Westminster say if one should take the celebrated murderer, Burke, (whose notorious name has given a new word to our language,) with some half dozen other such desperadoes, easy to imagine, and write a novel thereon, to depict English manners of the nineteenth century, only using so far "the privilege of the artist" as to represent Mr. Burke as an accomplished gentleman, circulating freely in English society, and his satellites as tolerated and every-day frequenters of the same? What would Mrs. Stowe herself say should we take the Parkman tragedy, (a much better foundation, by the way, than anything she has raked up in her Southern investigations,) and represent such gentlemen as of daily frequency in the pure New England society, the morals of which she would contrast with our own. If the lowest vices of the lowest men,—if the darkest crimes of the darkest villains,—actions which the vilest of mankind, only in their moments of blackest passion, can perpetrate,—are to be culled out with care, and piled upon each other, to form a monster disgusting to humanity, let the creator of so unnatural a conception give to his Frankenstein the name as well as the character of the monsters of fable. Let the creature stalk before us as some ghoul or afrite, and we shudder at the supernatural might of evil, which does not strike us as unnatural, because it does not claim to be of the nature of anything with which we are acquainted. But let the same creature be represented to us as a man,—above all, as one of many men, forming an integral part of a community of civilized men—and the effect becomes simply ridiculous where it is not disgusting. God made man in his own image—Mrs. Stowe has very decidedly set up a rival manufacture in the devil's image.
  The Westminster says that this work "cannot be accused of presenting a one-sided view;" that "it is rather remarkable for its breadth of view," "its genial charity." There are some good men and women, it thinks, among the characters represented. "St. Clare is a humane and cultivated gentleman." We must make our readers acquainted with this model Southern gentleman before answering this observation.
  In the meantime, permit us to ask, whether, in the results of governmental systems, as in all else, it is not a fair criterion to judge the tree by its fruit? Shall we cut down the fruitful and flourishing tree because, theoretically, it was ill-planted, or because its roots do not grow by rule, as A., B., or C.; or even as whole communities of A's, B's and C's judge most decorous and most productive? If there is any community whose system of government works better for all classes than our own, we are willing to abandon the defence of ours. But if, after all honest investigation, it has to be conceded, as, in spite of travellers' slanders, is conceded, has been proved by many an able essay, and can easily be proved again, whenever space and time are allowed for the subject; if, we say, it be acknowledged that no where are the higher classes more elevated—no where are the lower more comfortable—no where do both and all work together in their several positions with less of bitterness or more of the genial spirit of christian love and charity—that nowhere is there less misery and less vice exhibited than under the working of our system; if cases of wrong and oppression (which exist in every system, and must exist so long as man is not perfect) are, as in all good governments they must be, exceptional cases, and not cases in rule;—if all this is, as we contend it is, proved and conceded, what matters it if Mrs. Stowe's theory, or Mr. Horace Mann's, or Mr. Giddings's, or Mrs. Stowe's store-clerk brother's theory points it out as iniquitous! It is not enough to condemn such a system, even were it true, as the Westminster falsely states, that the horrors imagined by Mrs. Stowe are "possible within the law." Evils, to be felt, must be tangible and not theoretic evils. It is not enough that a master might do this, and might do that. The question is, what does he, in the majority of cases, do? How does the system work? not how ought it to work, according to my theory, or your theory, or his theory! Theory has done, and is doing, wild work in our world, of late years. The French universal equality and fraternity theory, for instance, after inundating the country in blood, and trying its wing in every variety of communistic and socialistic flight, has finally theorized itself away into as hard a despotism as tyrant could desire. The Mormon theory has introduced regular and legally established polygamy into these United States. The woman's rights theory is putting the ladies into their husband's pantaloons; and Mrs. Stowe's theory would lead them, heaven knows where! All spirit of joking leaves us as we look shudderingly forward to her results. Amalgation is evidently no bugbear to this lady.
  But let us look a little into the drama of our romance. The book opens with the introduction of "two gentlemen," seated at a table in a house, of which the general style "indicated easy and even opulent circumstances." The master of the house is one of the "gentlemen" The other, "when critically examined, did not seem, strictly speaking, to come under the species." This gentleman, who proves to be a slave-trader, but who must be so critically examined to discover that he is not strictly a gentleman, seems, however, quite at his ease, and rattles his watch-seals like a man of consequence,—hale fellow well met with the opulent signor, whom he constantly and familiarly terms Shelby, (leaving off the form of Mr.,) and occasionally slaps on the back, to make his conversation more impressive. Into what society can Mrs. Stowe have been admitted, to see slave-traders so much at their ease in gentlemen's homes? We have lived at the South, in the very heart of a slave country, for thirty years out of forty of our lives, and have never seen a slave-trader set foot in a gentleman's house. Such a debut argues somewhat queerly for the society with which madame and her clerk-brother have associated, and prepares us for some singular scenes in the elegant circles to which she introduces us.

  To give some idea of the style of these volumes, we will presently quote a page from the conversation of these two gentlemen. Mr. Shelby, the opulent owner of the house, is, it appears, in debt to an amount not stated, but, as he proposes paying his debt by the transfer of one negro, we are to presume that it does not exceed a thousand dollars. Strange to say, this opulent Kentucky gentleman has no resource in so pressing a difficulty, but the sale of a favourite negro, the manager of his farm, and his companion from childhood. There are, apparently, neither banks nor friends who could loan so enormous a sum as one thousand dollars to rescue the opulent gentleman from this difficulty, or Mr. Shelby is of the same opinion, perhaps, as our little girl of six years old, who shakes her head gravely and exclaims, "one thousand dollars! why, there is not so much money in this world, I think." At any rate it is so insurmountable a difficulty that, for this one thousand dollars, our opulent gentleman forgets that he is a gentleman—forgets that he is a man—forgets honour, principle, gratitude, and common sense, and offers his old black friend, his father's slave, his childhood's companion and guardian, the manager of his farm, the husband and father of a whole family of attached servants, to this brute of a slave-dealer, with decidedly more coolness than we could command in ordering the whipping of a thievish cur. To heighten the value of the commodity offered, this gentleman is praising his wares in rather singular language, by-the-way, for an educated man.
  "Tom is a good, steady, sensible, pious fellow. He got religion at a camp-meeting four years ago."

  To which remark the gentleman negro trader, who must be so critically examined to discover that he is not strictly of the first stamp, responds (we beg our readers to notice the elegant familiarity of his style):

  "Some folks don't believe there is pious niggers, Shelby; but I do. I had a fellow now, in this yer last lot I took to Orleans—'twas as good as a meetin', now, really, to hear that critter pray; and he was quite gentle and quiet like. He fetched me a good sum, too, for I bought him cheap of a man that was 'bliged to sell out; so I realized six hunderd on him. Yes, I consider religion a valeyable thing in a nigger, when its the genuine article and no mistake."

  To this, instead of kicking the scoundrel out of doors, our opulent gentleman answers, politely falling into the tone of his companion:

  "Well, Tom's got the real article, if ever fellow had. You ought to let him cover the whole balance of the debt; and you would, Haley, if you had any conscience."

  "Well, I've got just as much conscience as any man in business can afford to keep—just a little, you know, to swear by, as 'twere," said the trader jocularly; "and then I'm ready to do anything in reason to 'blige friends; but this yer, you see, is a leetle too hard on a fellow—a leetle too hard."

  O tempera! O mores! This is a leetle too hard to swallow. 

But let us go on. After a little more conversation of the same kind, "a small quadroon boy, four or five years of age," makes his appearance. Evidently this "small quadroon" is a gentleman at large, and a pet in the family, for he enters unsummoned, is patted on his "curly head," and "chucked under the chin" by his master, who receives him in whistling and "snapping a bunch of raisins at him." The gentleman master then, for the amusement of his gentleman visitor, causes his "small quadroon" to go through sundry funny exhibitions, such as imitating "Uncle Cudjoe when he has the rheumatism," showing "how old Elder Robbins leads the psalm," &c., during which exhibitions "both the gentlemen laughed uproariously." On their termination, the gentleman visitor bursts out anew:
  "Hurrah! bravo! what a young 'un! that chap's a case, I'll promise. Tell you what," said he, suddenly clapping his hand on Mr. Shelby's shoulder, "fling in that chap, and I'll settle the business—I will. Come, now, if that ain't doing the thing up about the rightest!"

  The mother of the child at that moment making her appearance, carries him off; and as soon as she leaves the room, our facetious and gentlemanly trader, struck with her saleable qualities, takes a new start.

  "By Jupiter! there's an article now! You might make your fortune on that ar gal in Orleans, any day. I've seen over a thousand, in my day, paid down for gals not a bit handsomer."

  The Westminster finds no vulgarity nor exaggeration in these volumes! In answer to this vulgar insolence, the master of the house can apparently find no better way of showing his disapprobation, than by uncorking a fresh bottle of wine, of which he politely asks the opinion of his polished guest.

  "Capital, sir! first chop!" said the trader; then turning and slapping his hand familiarly on Shelby's shoulder, he added: "Come, how will you trade about the gal?"

  But enough of this disgusting vulgarity. Need we say to any reader who has ever associated with decent society anywhere, that Mrs. Stowe evidently does not know what "a gentleman" is. We will pass over the one who, upon critical examination, shows that he is somewhat deficient; but what will any gentleman or lady say to Mr. Shelby? Mrs. Stowe has associated much, it would appear, with negroes, mulattoes and abolitionists; possibly, in her exalted dreams for the perfection of the race, she has forgotten the small punctilios of what, in the ordinary parlance of the world, is called decent society. She will, therefore, perhaps, excuse a hint from us, that her next dramatic sketch would be much improved by a somewhat increased decency of deportment in her performers. Whatever may be the faults, the vices, or the crimes of any man holding the position of gentleman (at least we vouch for a southern community), he would be above such coarse vulgarity. We would suggest, too (as she, no doubt, taken up with her glorious aspirations, and high and uncommon feelings, has forgotten what portion of common ones more ordinary creatures have), that it would be well to allow the appearance of the shadow of such even to us wretched slaveholders. If we are brutes, we usually try to appear a little more like human beings; and it would decidedly look more "nateral like" so to represent us. She describes this Mr. Shelby as "a fair, average kind of man, good-natured and kindly;" and yet, after the above scene, and a great deal more of discussion as to how a mother bears to have her children taken from her, in which the negro-trading gentleman, Haley, edifies the opulent gentleman, Shelby, with sundry descriptions in the taste and tone of the following:
  "I've seen 'em as would pull a woman's child out of her arms, and set him up to sell, and she screechin' like mad all the time; very bad policy—damages the article—makes 'em quite unfit for service sometimes. I knew a real handsome gal once in Orleans, as was entirely ruined by this sort o' handling. The fellow that was tradin' for her, didn't want her baby; and she was one of your real high sort, when her blood was up. I tell you, she squeezed up her child in her arms, and talked, and went on real awful. It kinder makes my blood cold to think on't; and when they carried off the child, and locked her up, she jest went ravin' mad, and died in a week. Clear waste, sir, of a thousand dollars, just for want of management."

  After this, we say, the " good-natured and kindly" Mr. Shelby determines to sell the child in a quiet way, to avoid the screechin', by stealing it away from its mother. Upon this very probable and natural incident, as Mrs. Stowe and the Westminster pronounce it, turns the principal romance of the story. The woman runs away with her child, and after adventures infinite, finally arrives among the Quakers and in Canada, &c.
  In the next scene, the authoress introduces us to one of her high and noble characters—one of those whose hearts, uncontaminated by the debasing effects of our system, rise above it. We will see whether she understands this class better than the gentlemanly, "good-natured and kindly:"

  "Mrs. Shelby was a woman of a high class, both intellectually and morally;" with "magnanimity and generosity of mind,"—"high moral and religious sensibility and principles, carried out with energy and ability into practical results."

  This very sensible, moral and religious lady, when made acquainted with her husband's brutal conduct, is very naturally distressed at it. But what remedy does she find? Does she consult with him as a wife should consult? Does she advise as a woman can advise? Does she suggest means and remedies for avoiding such a crisis? Does she endeavour to show her husband the fully and madness, as well as the wickedness, of his course? No. After a few remonstrances, feebly advanced, she, too, (the high intellectual woman!) seems to be struck dumb with the insurmountability of that terrible debt which is to be paid by the sale of one elderly man and a little child; she, too, seems to think there is no imaginable way for a comfortable farmer or planter to get round that enormous sum of the one thousand dollars or thereabouts; and neither she nor her good-natured and kindly husband, seem to imagine or to care, whether it might not be possible—quite as easy, perhaps—(should they be forced to part with a negro or two) to dispose of them in families to some humane neighbour (such servants as these are described to be, seldom go begging for owners), instead of tearing them apart and selling to a brutal slave-dealer, whom Mr. Shelby himself describes as "cool and unhesitating, and unrelenting as death and the grave." No; she thinks she fulfils her Christian duty much better, by letting the "faithful, confiding, excellent creature, Tom," who is willing "to lay down his life" for his master, "be torn in a moment" from all he holds dear, the petted and delicate child, from its petted and delicate mother, while she, the magnanimous woman, who carries out her high principles with energy into practical results, bursts out into a tirade, which, if anything could, might excuse the cold brutality of her husband, by the supposition that the poor man had gone crazy under similar lectures:
  "This is God's curse on slavery!—a bitter, bitter, most accursed thing!—a curse to the master and a curse to the slave! I was a fool to think I could make anything good out of such a deadly evil. It is a sin to hold a slave under laws like ours—I always felt it was." "Abolitionist! If they knew all I know about slavery they might talk!" &c., &c., &c.

  Poor Mr. Shelby! perhaps we have blamed him too soon. It would not have been astonishing if, with so inspiring a sample of femininity about him, he should have gone raving mad, and after cutting, selling and slashing, wound up by a lunatic asylum. This worthy couple, however, go quietly to bed; and such was their philosophical equanimity of mind, that "they slept somewhat later than usual the ensuing morning." And so little is Mrs. Shelby troubled by the impending evil (having, we presume, set her conscience at ease by the cursing steam-burst of the preceding evening), that on making up somewhat later than usual, she quietly lies in bed, ringing her bell to summon Eliza (the unfortunate mother of the "small quadroon," who is this morning to see her son transferred to Mr. Haley's tender mercies); and "after giving repented pulls of her bell to no purpose," coolly exclaims: "I wonder what keeps Eliza!" Oh! blessed composure amidst life's whirl! She has apparently no sins upon her mind, nor cares either, dear, virtuous lady! She cursed them all off upon her husband and slavery last night!

  But enough of this incomprehensible family. This Mrs. Shelby is one of Mrs. Stowe's "first chop" ladies. Let us now look a little into the model gentleman slaveholder of the work, Mr. St. Clare, who is pronounced by the Westminster to be a "humane and cultivated gentleman." He is first introduced to us, joking familiarly with the fascinating Mr. Haley, (who seems to have a wonderful facility in making his vulgarity acceptable to real gentlemen,) concerning the purchase of "Uncle Tom," of whom, having taken possession, "soul and body," (to use a favourite expression of Mrs. Stowe, to the propriety of which we are far from prepared to accede,) we follow him into the home of an elegant New-Orleans family. The household consists of the master, who, having been partly educated in New-England, cannot be entirely corrupted by the system of things round him; a New-England cousin, with some prejudices, but very sensible of course, and
"E'en her failings lean to virtue's side;"
A wife, of whom more anon; and a very angelic little daughter, who, being destined to die early, is, according to approved rule in such cases, represented as a terrible piece of precocity, and a kind of ministering, guiding angel to the whole family.

  The wife "had been, from her infancy, surrounded with servants, who lived only to study her caprices; the idea that they had either feelings or rights never dawned upon her, even in distant perspective."

  Heartless, selfish, foolish, and entirely corrupted by "the system," this strangely obtuse person still appears before us as an elegant woman of fortune. She seems to have no object in life, but by continued fretfulness to torment her husband, servants, and household generally, just as much as one person can well manage. Yet, as she is at the head of a princely establishment, and has been all her life accustomed to the elegancies, indulgences and luxuries of the highest style of living, we must, it is to be presumed, take it for granted that she has the manners of a lady, whatever inherent defects of character, selfish, or even cruel, might exist. Indeed, the authoress seems anxious to impress upon us a high opinion of the elegant ease and grace of this voluptuously educated lady, whom she deseribes as "so graceful, so elegant, so airy and undulating in all her motions;" who has been cradled and grown up in such luxurious elegance as would become some Eastern sultana.

  Such a woman, it may be well imagined, might be selfish in the extreme. Spoiled and indulged from her birth, she might snub her husband, neglect her child, be peevish and exacting with her servants; but she could not be the vulgar virago. We do not deny that our Southern character has its faults—faults, too, which take their stamp, in part, from our institutions and our climate, as do those of out Northern neighbours from theirs; but we do deny that any Southern woman, educated as a lady, could sit for such a portrait as Mrs. Stowe has drawn. Shrinking timidity, and an almost prudish delicacy, is perhaps a fault of our Southern women—at least, it is certainly a characteristic, which, in the opinion of many, is a fault, and which, whatever merits it may possess at a home fireside, makes them necessarily less prominent to the public gaze, less remarkable to public inspection, and gives a quietness of manner, which, when compared to the much more free and easy ways of our Northern sisters, sometimes amounts to insipidity. Such, at least, are the faults which we have heard found by Northern critics. With its disadvantages, however, this manner retains also its advantages, and a Southern lady, even in her faults—aye, term them, if you will, her vices—retains still the shadow of that delicacy which is inherent in her education, if not in her nature.
  With what Southern society Mrs. Stowe and her clerk-brother have associated, we leave to be guessed by any Southern lady or gentleman who reads her description of Mrs. St. Clare. To judge from a variety of New-England idiomatic expressions, such as: She asked him "to smell of hartshorn;" " I can't sleep nights;" "She offered to take care of me nights;" "I don't see as any thing ails the child;" &c., &c., we should have a shrewd suspicion that she had found her character somewhat nearer home than New-Orleans. These are expressions which are almost as foreign to the idioms of our Southern tongue as Greek or Hebrew. And again, when speaking of an incorrigible servant, this lady is made to say: (Vol. ii., p.99.)

  "She has been talked to and preached to, and every earthly thing done that any body could do, and she's just as ugly as always."

  We doubt if one Southern person in a hundred, who has not taken an enlightening journey to New-England, would imagine the meaning of the expression. The word ugly, with us, is applied entirely to physical—never to moral deformity. However trifling these verbal faults may appear, we deem them worthy of note, as showing that Mrs. Stowe does not even know the language of the society she undertakes to depict. The spirit of it is still farther beyond her. Vide Mrs. St. Clare's elegant discussion, (vol. ii., p. 81,) as to whether she or her daughter sweats most:

  "Very often, night after night, my clothes will be wringing wet. There won't be a dry thread in my night clothes, and the sheets will be so that mammy has to hang them up to dry! Eva doesn't sweat any thing like that!"

  And again, to a negro girl: (Vol. ii., p. 97.)

  "What now, you baggage! what new piece of mischief! You've been picking the flowers, hey!" and then Eva heard the sound of a smart slap.

  "Law, Missis! they's for Miss Eva.

  "Miss Eva! a pretty excuse! You suppose she wants your flowers, you good for nothing nigger! Get along off with you."

  Elegant Southern gentleman, however curtain-lectured or hen-pecked, will you acknowledge this as a picture of your wife? You baggage! You good for nothing nigger! Southern language in select society! Mrs. Stowe, by way of showing the effect of "the system," endeavours to make the maids and their mistresses speak as much alike as possible. Her mulatto ladies are at times as unnaturally elegant as their mistresses are vulgar. We have no time for them, however, but must exhibit Mrs. St. Clare a little farther. The coarse indifference which this elegant lady constantly expresses for the feelings of her dependants, and particularly for those of "mammy," an old family servant, who has tended her from child-hood, and whom she has separated from husband and children, can find its parallel in no rank of society. Never, we contend, was there the Southern woman, brought up in decent associations, at once so heartless and so foolish, that, supposing it possible for her to feel nothing in such a case, would not, for mere fashion and gentility sake, imitate those feelings of which she would know it to be her shame to be devoid. It is not the fashion with us to hang out the flag of hard-heartedness. If "the system" necessitates in us that short-coming from virtue, (as the omniscient Mrs. Stowe most dogmatically asserts that it does, has done, must and ever will do,) at least we have learned the hypocrisy to conceal the calamitous deficiency under which we labour. No woman but would, by the tacit moral sense of any Southern community, be excluded from all decent society, did she dare to talk as this lady, the spoiled child of elegance and luxury, is represented as doing.

  "Just as if mammy could love her little dirty babies as I love Eva! Yet St. Clare once really and soberly tried to persuade me that it was my duty, with my weak health and all I suffer, to let mammy go back, and take somebody else in her place. That was a little too much even for me to bear. I did break out that time."

  This is bad enough—ridiculous enough; but we did not break out till some half page farther, at which point we did break out into most uncontrollable laughter, when this elegant, spoiled, lounging Southern lady remarks:

  "I keep my cowhide about, and sometimes I do lay it on (! ! !) but the exertion is always too much for me. If St. Clare would only have this thing done as others do," "send them to the calaboose, or some of the other places, to be flogged. That's the only way."

  Ye gods! we do not believe that there is a lady's maid south of the Potomac, who would not blush through her black or yellow skin, at hearing her mistress use such language, however much she might think it her right to occasionally indulge in it herself. An elegant Southern lady keeping a cowhide, and laying it on sometimes!

  Mon Dieu! Mein Gott! We feel like a little one we have known, who, learning the French and German languages simultaneously with the English, used the several tongues indifferently, until she got into a passion, and then, the French and German sounding, we presume, more cursing-like to her ear, she whipped out those in high style. We could use French, German, Hebrew or Cherokee—anything, Mein Gott! except our own native tongue, which this lady (?) has so defiled.

  We wish Mrs. Stowe would undertake an English high-life novel, and give the Westminster a home sample of the "privilege of the artist," for which it contends. Should she carry through her characters with a consistency similar to that exhibited in the present work, we might perchance be introduced to Queen Victoria and her ladies drinking beer or gin and water, at the first convenient "exchange," (as dram shops are elegantly termed out West,) and when they should get a little tipsy, royalty might amuse herself by boxing the ears of her satellites. Prince Albert, the while, should stand by with a gentlemanly simper, or perhaps offer the "cowskin" to royalty, that she might assert her prerogative a l'Americaine. All this, if we mistake not, (we humbly defer, however, to the judgment of the Westminster,) is "possible within the law," and if it be the "privilege of the artist" to consult only, possibilities, and leave probabilities out of the question, Mrs. Stowe, with her vivid imagination, might revel in such a subject.

  If our readers have a fancy for another scene in the same style, we refer them to vol. 2 (p. 146-7,) where our same elegant lady became a widow, after slapping the face of her maid, writes an order in her "delicate Italian hand, to the master of a whipping establishment, to give the bearer fifteen lashes;" the bearer being a sensitive, delicate and beautiful quadroon girl, as white as her mistress, whom the lady declares it her intention to have whipped until she "brings her down."
  "I'll teach her, with all her airs, that she's no better than the raggedest black wench that walks the streets."

  Reader, we gasp for breath, and are happy, once and forever, to take leave of this elegant Southern lady. We confess to being almost as much frightened as was the clerk-brother in the "ogre's den."

  We must return to the gentleman specimen, from whom we have been drawn off by his wife. Mr. St. Clare's New-England education, we should say, had marked, whether or not his virtues, certainly his English, very decidedly. Unless, indeed, as Mrs. Stowe has put a similar phraseology in the mouth of his wife, she intends to pass upon us such expressions as the following, for the English of educated Southern society: "Isn't it dreadful tiresome." "They arn't." "That isn't my affair as I know of." "I don't know as I am." "I've travelled in England some," &c., &c. This (according to the Westminster) humane and cultivated gentleman, besides an occasional habit of being "helped home in a condition when the physical had decidedly attained the upper hand of the intellectual," seems to do very nearly nothing but lie upon sofas, read newspapers and indulge himself in occasional abuse of a system by which he holds a property, the possession of which he considers as iniquitous in the extreme, and yet never takes one step to correct this iniquity. The whole tenor of Mrs. Stowe's book implies that all benevolent slave owners are benevolent, only because they feel that they have no right to be slave owners at all, and, therefore, endeavour, by kindness and indulgence, to, in some sort, pay the slave for that of which, in their own opinions, they are habitually defrauding him. Verily, this is a sickly kind of goodness enough, and one of which, we aro happy to state, we have met with but few instances. To rob a man and pay him back a moderate per-centage on the spoils of his own pocket, is not Southern honour. We are not such votaries of the convenient and the expedient that it has become the habitual life of our "humane and cultivated gentlemen" to daily and hourly continue in the commission of a flagrant act of injustice, because it suits their convenience so to do. If such be the Stowe and Westminster idea of a gentleman, we are unfortunate enough to have less convenient consciences, and singular as the fact may appear to this knowing fraternity, we are willing to state upon oath, or in any other, the most veracious manner possible, our fixed belief and certain opinion, that there really are a good many among our Southern inhabitants, men and women, who do what they think right, and are not living with a constant lie on their lips and in their hearts; who own slaves because they believe "the system" to be the best possible for black and white, for slave and master, and who can, on their knees, gratefully worship the all-gracious providence of an Almighty God, who has seen fit, so beautifully, to suit every being to the place to which its nature calls it. Ay, Mrs. Stowe, there are pious slaveholders; there are christian slaveholders; there are gentlemanly slaveholders; there are slaveholders whose philosophic research has looked into nature and read God in his works, as well as in his Bible, and who own slaves because they think it, not expedient only, but right, holy and just so to do, for the good of the slave—for the good of the master—for the good of the world. It is not only a New-England "Miss Ophelia" who "would cut off her right hand, sooner than keep on from day to day doing what she thinks wrong." There are men, and women too, slave-owners and slaveholders, who need no teachings to act as closely as human weakness can, to such a rule. Southern hearts and Southern souls can beat high, and look heavenward, with noble and pure aspirations, blessing God for his mercies; blessing "the system" through which His wisdom obviates, what to man's little intellect might seem insurmountable, evils, and blessing that beautiful order of creation, which ignorant bigotry, vainly, as yet, has striven to cast back into chaos. We believe that there is not, in the whole of these United States, one solitary instance of a Southern gentleman, owning slaves and using or even thinking such language as the following :
  "The short of the matter is, cousin, on this abstract question of slavery, there can, I think, be but one opinion. Planters, who have money to make by it—clergymen, who have planters to please—politicians, who want to rule by it, may warp and bend language and ethics to a degree that shall astonish the world at their ingenuity they can press nature and the Bible, and nobody knows what else, into the service; but, after all, neither they nor the world believe in it one particle the more. It comes from the devil, that's the short of it, and, to my mind, it's a pretty respectable specimen of what be can do in his own line."
  Was there ever a more impudent, wholesale accusation, at once of bold iniquity and crouching meanness, than is here coolly put forward by this humane genntleman in this work so "remarkable for its breadth of view," and "its genial charity." A whole population, not cheating themselves, but, with open eyes, living in iniquity, educating their children to it, praying to their God for it, and not one prophet rising in the midst of this glaring, this heinous offence, to cry "Wo! wo!" Why, this is worse than heathendom. The idol-worshipper, crouching before his gods of clay and of wood, believes, at least in the Mumbo Jumbo whom he worships, and seeks to make his adoration agreeable to it. Covered with blood and bathed in crime, he still brings to his deity a sincere sacrifice. But we dare to kneel before a christian God, mocking him with prayers of which we know the hollowness, and boasting of the sin which we pray him not even to pardon, content ourselves with claiming Omnipotence as a kind of partner in the concern! "The short of it is," then, to sum up the gentleman's words a little more concisely, that slaveholders are, without exception, the greatest set of, at once, bold rascals and sneaking fools that ever lived. No exception, we presume, can be claimed in favour of such characters as Mr. Augustine St. Clare himself, for, surely, there are few who, entertaining such liberal views as the Westminster, would set him down as a humane and intelligent gentleman.

  As concerns his humanity, let us examine a little farther. Constantly repeating such opinions as we have just quoted, and adding thereto, frequently, the most vituperative abuse of every thing connected with this "monstrous system of injustice," hoping that there "yet may be found among us, generous spirits who do not estimate honour and justice by dollars and cents," he yet continues to hold the iniquitous possession, and without the courage of a Pilate to wash his hands clean of the sin, he continues to receive the price of blood, and idly luxuriates in the income of his slave-labour, in as matter-of-course a manner as Queen Victoria does in hers, and finally dies suddenly without having ever taken the trouble to secure his dependants from the unlimited control of their supremely elegant and brutal mistress. It is singular enough, too, that this conscientious gentleman, who, converted to religious views very much through the instrumentality of the faithful Tom, dies a true christian death; holding in his own, the hand of this devoted black friend; conscious of his situation; knowing Tom perfectly; entreating him to pray for his parting spirit; joining in those earnest prayers sent for him to Heaven's throne, from the very depths of this generous, devoted, self-forgetting heart, yet dies forgetting his duty, his solemn promise of liberation to this humble friend, and leaves him hopelessly separated from all that he has dear upon earth, in the power of the worst of owners, under this (according to his own statement) "monstrous system of injustice." Strange conduct, to say the least, for an intelligent, humane, christian gentleman.
  Apropos of Tom's liberation, what does our authoress mean by talking as she does, at sundry different times, about his master "commencing the legal steps necessary to Tom's emancipation?" Is it so hard to get rid of a negro in New-Orleans, that one cannot tell the fellow in three words, or by a stroke of the pen give him a permit to be off? In some of our Southern States there is, we know, a law forbidding liberation within the precincts of the State, but besides that this is not the case in Louisiana, even in the States where such a law does prevail, there is no difficulty whatever in letting the individual take himself off, as Tom desired to do, to "Kentuck," or any where under Heaven, where he could be admitted; and we are quite mystified by these incomprehensible "legal formalities for his enfranchisement," which were the root and cause of all Tom's subsequent difficulties. Do they tattoo negroes in New-Orleans when they want to liberate them? Or is there a kind of Free-mason ceremony to go through ? Or what was the difficulty, that Tom could not take himself off to Kentucky in half an hour, after his master chose to permit him to do so? We, in our ignorance, should have supposed, that not only could it have been done at any hour within the many weeks during which the subject was in agitation; but, that even if previously neglected, one word from the master to the physician or any other reliable witness, as be lay upon his deathbed, soothed by the negro's devoted care, would have been quite sufficient to secure the execution of his desires on this point. But the Westminster determines, that all the horrors and difficulties of the actors in Mrs. Stowe's dramatic realities, are strictly and entirely according to the laws of the divers States wherein they are stated to have occurred. Westminster Review contributors, must of course, be well versed in Southern United States laws. So high an authority cannot be disputed by poor folks, who have not been enlightened on the subject of their own laws and customs by having "travelled in England some," as Mr. St. Clare would say.
  We have laboured through the painful task we have given ourselves, to the middle of the second volume of Mrs. Stowe's dramatics, and are heartily sick of our task; yet the most disgusting part of the work is left untouched. We confess, our courage fails us. Not that there is a single argument to answer or a single fact proved against us. But what argument avails against broad, flat, impudent assertion? The greatest villain may swear down an honest man: and the greatest falsehoods are oftenest those which it is impossible to disprove. Mrs. Stowe, among those of her accusations which are the most revolting at once to decency, truth and probability, puts constantly and nauseously forward, the object for which she chooses to assert, that mulatto and quadroon women are particularly valued at the New-Orleans market. If, as the only way of answering it, we give the charge the lie, the Westminster responds, it is "possible within the law:" and it would seem, according to Westminsterian logic, for an author who professes to give the dramatic realities of life, a legal possibility is fair material, and human nature's probabilities and possibilities not worth considering. If we answer that there is no more moral population in the world, than that of our Slave States, (few, indeed, equally so,) we are answered with a sneer of derision. We, who live at home in the midst of it, cannot know as well as Mrs. Stowe, who gets her intelligence from "personal friends," and "collecting clerks," or as the Westminster reviewer, who know all about it from Mrs. Stowe. We can but meet false evidence by counter evidence; we can but meet false assertion, by counter assertion. If Mrs. Stowe, the Westminster, and their followers, are willing to listen, we will give them as much of that as would satisfy any reasonable human being. But no. They have had a vision of the truth. It is possible within the law, to sell babies and to ill-treat women; therefore, it is done, is their sapient conclusion. So, let us also, imagine a novel of legal possibilities. Here we suppose is a father, his wife and some half dozen children under age, consequently subjected to his authority. The poor wife, broken down by cruelty, privation, exposure and hard labour, (throw in here much pathetic reading about fascinating beauty, female delicacy, &c.,) falls into a consumption, and is dying of want in a wretched cellar. A skeleton infant, hanging on her withered breast, sucks up disease instead of nourishment; while a child of some two summers old, whose emaciated limbs, projecting cheek bones, and eager, ravenous eye, show too plainly that starvation is the disease of which it is dying, as it lies moaning by the bundle of rags which forms its mother's pillow, (not even a handful of straw has she to keep her from the cold, damp ground,) gnaws eagerly as its prostrate strength will petmit, a mouldy crust which an elder brother has raked from the filth in the street. Other spectres of famine move languidly about the apartment, while the brutal father amuses himself by mocking their staggering steps, and then pausing by his dying wife, rattles in his pocket some certain amount of cash, which he has this instant received from a burly, comfortable looking citizen, who stands coolly looking on at the agonies of the dying woman, as her husband with a diabolical sneer, informs her that not one penny of the contents of his pocket shall she or her brats ever touch. She points to the starving child, which her husband only pushes aside contemptuously with his foot, and then snatching from it the mouldy crust, flings it back into the street, as he exclaims, "Let the little devil die! The sooner the better. I can't kill it, for the laws would catch me; but damn it, if I won't be glad to see the whole set of you in your graves." The burly citizen seems too much amused with the progress of events, to think of interrupting them by calling in assistance to the sufferers. One of the wretched boys starts up as though he would do something, but the father striking him back, asks him what he means by his insolence, and the almost idiotic creature, (brutalized as he is, and stupified by long suffering,) creeps back to the corner where he has heretofore crouched. The dying struggles now come upon the woman, and both the men amuse themselves by mimicing the contortions of her agony, as she lies upon the cold ground. The husband kicking away from her head the bundle of rags which has hitherto supported it, tells her the sooner she goes to the devil the better, and then carries on in her hearing an infamous bargain with the other brute, for the sale of his second daughter, (beautiful girl, shrinking innocence, &c. These may be much expatiated upon,) with the understanding, that should the law by chance enquire into the affair, the assumed ground is, that the child is sent for benefit of education, &c.; and in case of resistance or attempt to escape, insanity can be easily sworn to. The mother, who has already seen her elder daughter torn from her by a similar bargain of infamy, now, vainly endeavouring to utter a remonstrance, groans her last, and as her dying words are checked by the death-rattle, the husband pushing aside the almost corpse, tears the terrified girl from that last embrace, which seems as though it would drag her away from the hell that hangs over her young and innocent life, and turning to the citizen, bids him count out his cash. He comments on the beauties of the child, tells how it is a young, fresh thing, and should pay well; while the other looks—
  But God forgive us! It is too horrible, thus to follow out imaginations, whose only aim is to blacken God's creature's, and

"Little knowing how to value right
The good before us, thus pervert best things
To worst abuse, or to their meanest use."
  Shall we abolish the relations of husband and wife, of parent and child, because they are sometimes abused, and because some foul imagination delights in painting them as ten-fold worse perverted than ever truth has shown them? Shall we abolish every tie that can by possibility be abused? Shall we take such a scene as the above, and because it is possible, as the Westminster might say, "within the law," or rather, to speak more correctly, by evasion of the law, (and just as possible and just as natural it is, as Mrs. Stowe's disgusting dramatics,) because such things might, by an imaginary possibility, come to pass in England or any other civilized country, under existing laws, shall we, therefore, declare that they do exist in fact, and exist not as exceptional cases merely, but as the daily habit and general custom of such countries, and that, therefore, every system of government shall be reversed and "chaos come again?"
  It is the habit of a certain class of Gospel quoting writers, so to quote those beautiful maxims, that they are turned to wrath rather than charity. The scriptures may be quoted, as we once heard it re-marked by a venerable divine, to sound very much like cursing. Such persons seem to themselves to rise in virtue, just in such proportion as they can degrade their fellows. They do not mount the ladder of righteousness, but fixing themselves sturdily on a certain round, they do their best to keep off all competitors; quite sure of being saints, so soon as they can transform their brethren into devils. They discover, imagine, invent blots on the robes of others, that they may boast their own saintly purity, and thank God that they are not as other men. And lest the Omniscient hear them not, then do they cry aloud in remonstrance: Cry aloud for He is a God; either he is talking, or he is pursuing, or he is in a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth and must be awaked." Thus has Mrs. Stowe lifted up her voice, and with a furious onslaught on the mote of her brother's eye, noteth not, perchance, the beam in her own.

  To disprove slanders thus impudently uttered, and obstinately persevered in, is impossible, unless those who are to judge the question had some little insight into the facts of the case, and could know something of our habits and our laws; thus being enabled to judge of the respective worth of the testimony brought before them. So far from this being the case in the present question, not only is our cause prejudged, but our very accusers assume to be our judges. They make the assertion; they swear to its truth; they pronounce sentence; and then, at once judge, jury, witness and plaintiff they set up the most lamentable wailings over the horrible creations of their own fancy. To those who are determined to credit such assertions, in spite of all testimony, no argument can be of avail. To such as are willing to hear both sides, we have endeavoured to invalidate Mrs. Stowe's testimony, by proving, that so far from being well acquainted with our habits and manners, she has probably never even set foot in our country, and is ignorant alike of our manners, feelings, and even habits of language. She makes her Southern ladies and gentlemen talk rather vulgar Yankee-English. Her Louisiana negroes all talk "Kentuck." She is probably not aware that the negro dialect varies even more than the white, in accordance with the local bringing up of the speaker. No negro, we believe, except a Virginia or Kentucky one, uses "thar," for there; "har," for hair; "that ar," for that; "hev," for have, &c. They have a patois, much more unintelligible frequently, but not the Kentucky lingo, which she puts into their mouths. We doubt if Mrs. Stowe has ever crossed the line of a slave state at all. If she has, it has evidently not been further south than the mere crossing of the Kentucky border. There, with all her prejudices wide awake, she has seen slavery, (if, indeed, she has seen it anywhere,) in the worst condition in which it can exist. In a border state, constantly open to the attacks of meddling fanaticism, every man feels that his property (while the legal institutions of his state, formed for its protection, are staggering) stands but by a very doubtful tenure, and he naturally looks forward to parting with it in some way or other. Peaceably or forcibly; at a loss or a profit; in some way or the other, the thing must come. By this habit of mind, a severance of old ties and affection soon springs up. The child is no longer educated to think that the slave is almost a part of himself, a dependant to live and die with. The idea is constantly held forward of some necessary change; and how to make that change, at the least loss to himself, will of course, be a frequent question with the property holder. Then comes the clash between interest and humanity, and the old link of mutual affection broken, too often the sick and weak negro becomes a burden, the strong one simply a property. This is no longer the slavery we love to defend. This bastard growth of abolitionism grafted on selfishness, is not Southern United States Slavery. It is border state slavery, from which, thanks to abolitionism, have sprung some (thank God! only some, only a few) of those horrors which abolition writers delight to depict. Here, more than elsewhere, may exceptional cases be seen, that abuse of power which occurs when affection is blotted out, humanity weak, and selfishness strong. These cases are still comparatively rare; but they are a melancholy proof of what may be effected, when man opposes himself to his God. God directs and man perverts. Make a law perverting nature by which (as our woman's rights reformers would have it) woman and man are equal, and created with similar rights, and what ensues but bloody barbarity and tyrannic force, trampling to earth the beneficent, though often abused relations, which now exist between them? Make a law by which (because the parent sometimes abuses his authority) the child shall become the free and equal competitor for that parent's privileges, to aim at a general home democracy, and on true free soil principle, to take what suits him of house or land; and what again follows, but the extinction of all affection; the early murder of infants; the reign of blood and brute force, instead of charity, affection, beautiful dependence, and christian love? Make your laws to intefere with the God-established system of slavery, which our Southern States are beautifully developing to perfection, daily improving the condition of the slave, daily waking more and more the master to his high and responsible position; make your laws, we say, to pervert this God-directed course, and the world has yet to see the horrors which might ensue from it. The natural order of things perverted, ill must follow. The magnitude of that ill, may heaven protect us from witnessing! Mrs Stowe has seen, on the border lands, where something of a clash has arisen between the rival powers of abolitionism and slavery, a shadow of those evils which would result to the slave, when the natural boundaries of the system being broken down, the master would retain the powers without the affections belonging to his position. These evils her imagination has multiplied an hundred fold; but yet are to to depicted those scenes, when the slave, struggling with his destiny, shall force into opposition the rival might of civilization and barbarism, of brute force and intellectual power. Imagination has not yet depicted those. She threatens us with a second Haytien tragedy. Hayti! She knows not of what she talks. As the ocean to the wave—as the rill to the torrent—as the zephyr to the whirlwind—would any such scenes, if possible among us, be to those of Hayti, fearful as they were; and as ocean's gulf to a rain-puddle, would be the ensuing barbarism. Mrs. Stowe has a fertile imagination, and has got up quite a respectable collection of "tales of wonder," which would rival in horrors those of Monk Lewis; yet, though she should go on, and on, and on, till even her thought should quail, and even her heart sink at the fearful picture, yet will she not have touched, yet can she not have began to imagine, the fearful penalties which indignant nature would attach to her so outraged laws.

  "Thus far shalt thou go, and no farther," hath God said, not to the great ocean only, when he chained it within its bed, but equally to every creature within the limits of its uses and its intelligence. To the white man, he has given his place; to the negro, his. The white man who abuses his God-given power, is indeed criminal, both to God and to man. Hitchings there are, and disorders numberless, in the great world-system of machinery, which Omniscience has not seen fit to make perfect; but what are these, compared to the general crash which would follow, should man, with his tinkering, upset the whole fabric, that he may rectify its errors by his puny wisdom? The civilized world must totter to its foundations, when, if ever, African slavery in America ceases to exist.

  As Mrs. Stowe seems to forget, or rather to deny, the possibility of all human feeling in slaveholders, we will not pretend to argue against her grossest imaginations on that ground, but will base what further we have to say, upon the moral impossibility of her facts, and their improbability, as connected with the one question of "dollars and cents," which she represents as the all-absorbing one of the system. This consideration would, certainly, be alone sufficient to prevent a man from whipping to death a property, a chattel, an ox, or an ass, for which he had paid, and for which, he could obtain a large equivalent, by a simple transfer of the property to other hands. By Mrs. Stowe's own argument, the slave, being a chattel and a property, would, in the natural law of things, fall under the same rule. But her ingenious malignity, cleverly as it generally works, sometimes, in the zeal of argument, forgets its logic. While her effort is, constantly, to represent the slave as a mere chattel in the eye of the master, occasionally, in order to exhibit the action of some demoniac cruelty, she suddenly forgets her own reasoning and argues upon the supposition of a rivality of feeling; a hatred, not simply as of man to man, even in the indifferent positions of life, but such a hatred, such a rivality, as could only exist among individuals whose clashing ambitions and contending interests should have cast them struggling together in the closest juxtaposition, in one arena, with similar aims, similar hazards, similar hopes and similar jealousies. In the ordinary relations of master and slave, such feelings are not only impossible, but the mere supposition of them becomes ludicrous, to any one who has looked into the institution as it exists in the United States, between the white man and the African. Such human links as exist between the races under this system are, necessarily, all of a softening character. The natural antipathies of race are checked, and almost obliterated, by the peculiar relation which, at once, unites and separates the races; acting in social life like the disjunctive conjunction in grammar, linking, yet severing so distinctly, that there is no possibility of confusion among the objects thus connected. The master gives protection; the slave looks for it. Interest combines with humanity to tighten these bonds, and it would be impossible for the most satanic malignity of disposition to imagine laws which, under this system, could sever these two great incentives to action. Occasional acts of cruelty, of maiming, or of murder, when they do occur, (as undoubtedly, in all relations of life, the nearest, the dearest, they do and must occur,) are always, when exercised from mister to slave, the result of violent passion and impulsive anger. A man will, perhaps, in a fit of rage, shoot the horse which has thrown him; but can it be imagined, that he would subject to a long course of torture, with the purpose of disabling or subjecting to a lingering death, in cold-blooded revenge, the animal, which, if he have taken a dislike to it, he can more easily rid himself of, by sale or transfer, with pecuniary profit to himself. Mrs. Stowe forgets that even the vices of men are so arranged by an Omniscient Providence, that they are frequently found to balance one another, and even were the slave-owner the devil she imagines him, his malignity must be checked by his avarice.
  We have not room for the story of George Harris, a remarkably intelligent mulatto, perfectly orderly, submissive and obedient, who is, by his ingenuity and talent, making immense profits for his master at a neighbouring factory. The master, without the slightest provocation on the part of his slave, suddenly becomes jealous of his extraordinary capacity, and determines to put him down. Purposely, therefore, to force him to be good-for-nothing, he withdraws him from the only kind of service to which be is adapted, and puts him to the most degrading drudgery, expressly with the intention of destroying the value of his labour. Not satisfied with this, he uses every means that "tyrannical ingenuity can devise," to "render his condition more bitter by every smarting vexation and indignity;" and what reason, forsooth, does this reasonable master give for such a course? "The man is mine, and I do what I please with him,—that's it!"

  Let us imagine similar conduct towards a horse, an ox, an ass, and what would be the universal comment? That the man is cruel—hard-hearted —brutal? No—that he is fit for Bedlam. Did ever a man in his senses ruin his property, because he is jealous of it! "Dollars and cents! dollars and cents!" Mrs. Stowe, you have rung the changes upon these so often, you should have surely remembered them still. What sends men to the California diggings? What sends them to Australia? What sends them to the devil? Dollars and cents; dollars and cents; dollars and cents. We argue nothing for the conscience, the humanity, the charity, the decency of these abominable slave-owners, given up, as they are, to satan and his devices; but—dollars and cents, Mrs. Stowe; there is no getting around that diffculty. George Harris's master, if he had taken a dislike to George Harris, would have sold him for as many dollars as he could bring, and not by a slow process of torture, have undertaken to ruin and make thoroughly valueless, the animal which he held in such fine saleable order. We have here adopted Mrs. Stowe's own manner of reasoning, and in her own style, and following up her own arguments, prove, we think, her conclusions somewhat illogical. No man will, in cold blood, burn down his house, because he has got out of temper with its manner of construction; no man will torment to death, or uselessness, whether his beast or his slave, simply because he has taken a prejudice against the structure of body, or turn of mind, of the article. In either case, however much as he may dislike the concern, he will very much prefer handing it over to the first purchaser for a reasonable equivalent in dollars and cents. The malignity of jealous spite can only arise in cases where rivality has existed. The deadly venom of smothered hatred may rise in the bosom of rival against rival; of friend against friend; of brother against brother; but not—of master against slave.

  But our argument is becoming so prolix, that we must cut it short. We could run on for fifty pages, showing our author's blunders and inconsequences. Let any one look at the strange system of management she attributes to her Caliban, Legree; and say how long it would be, with such a system of mingled brutality and familiarity, before a man would be murdered by his own negroes. It would be wonderful if his very horses and oxen, similarly treated, should not learn to gore and kick him to death. Look at her brutal slave-trader, who, after enlightening the reader with sundry horrible tales of mothers driven to suicide or insanity, by having their infants torn from them, finally, by way, apparently, of illustrating his lectures, sells a child of ten months old, from a woman whom he has just purchased, and has the pleasure, accordingly, a few hours after, of hearing that she has (as, we are to presume, he, of course, intended, from his experience in former cases) drowned herself. This man must, we should presume, have been some disguised student of the anatomy of the human feelings, who experimented thereon, much as young surgeons do upon the agonies of their cats and dogs. Surely, he was no simple negro-trader, carrying on his barbarous traffic for its accruing gains, or he would have better learned how to cast up his balance of profit and loss. Look again at the wonderful accumulation of instances she offers of quadroons and mulattoes, so fair as to be almost mistaken—frequently, quite mistaken—for white; with glossy brown curls, fair soft hands, &c., &c. Indeed, seeming to forget that her principal task is the defence of the negro, decidedly the majority of the persecuted individuals brought forward for our sympathy, are represented as whites, of slightly negro descent, not negroes. We cannot forbear copying a page to illustrate her manner of exhibiting such characters. Cassy, one of these unfortunates who has made her escape from hellish bondage, appears in a steamboat under the protection of Mr. George Shelby, a young Kentucky gentleman:
  "She sat upon the guards, came to table, and was remarked upon in the boat, as a lady that must have been very handsome.

  "The next room to Cassy's was occupied by a French lady, named De Thoux, who was accompanied by a fine litle daughter, a child of some twelve summers.

  "This lady having gathered from George's conversation, that he was from Kentucky, seemed evidently disposed to cultivate his acquaintance, in which design she was seconded by the graces of her little girl, who was about as pretty a plaything as ever diverted the weariness of a fortnight's trip on a steamboat. George's chair was often placed at her state-room door.

  "'Do you know,' said Madame de Thoux to him, one day, 'of any man in your neighbourhood, of the name of Harris?'

  "'There is an old fellow of that name lives not far from my father's place,' said George, 'We never had much intercourse with him, though.'

  "'He is a large slave-owner, I believe,' said Madame de Thoux, with a manner which seemed to betray more interest than she was exactly willing to show.

  "'He is,' said George, looking rather surprised at her manner.

  "'Did you ever know of his having—perhaps you may have heard of his having—a mulatto boy named George?'

  "'Oh, certainly, George Harris, I know him well; he married a servant of my mother's, but has escaped, now, to Canada.'

  "'He has,' said Madame de Thoux, quickly, 'thank God!'

  "George looked a surprised enquiry, but said nothing.

  "Madame do Thoux leaned her head on her hand, and burst into tears.

  "'He is my brother,' she said.

  "'Madame,' said George, with a strong accent of surprise.

  "'Yes,' said Madame de Thoux, lifting her head proudly, and wiping her tears, 'Mr. Shelby, George Harris is my brother!'

  "'I am perfectly astonished,' said George, pushing back his chair a pace or two, and looking at Madame de Thoux.

  "'I was sold to the South when he was a boy,' said she. 'I was bought by a good and generous man. He took me with him to the West Indies, set me free and married me. It is but lately that ho died; and I am coming up to Kentucky, to see if I can find and redeem my brother.'"—(2d vol. p. 201.)

  Some further conversation shows that the wife of this brother is the daughter of the quadroon lady, Mrs. Cassy, who is passing herself off for a Spanish lady of rank, and who, thereupon, falls insensible upon the floor. Forthwith, the cabin is crowded with ladies, and all proper bustle, and other accompaniments of fainting fits, occur; but, strange to say, nobody on this Southern steamboat ever seems to divine that the mulatto ladies are anything but the French and Spanish dames for which they pass themselves off. Verily, we can inform the Westminster that whether such scenes be possible, or impossible, "within the law," according to Westminster readings, they are most certainly impossible within the law of nature; and if we of the South had wished to pass a good hoax upon our northern or trans-atlantic brethren, we could not easily have imagined a more ridiculously improbable scene than that of the woolly-headed and yellow-skinned mulatto, Madame de Thoux (for the woolly-head and yellow skin must have been there, in spite of Mrs. Stowe and the Westminster) established as, and passing for a lady, in the cabin of a Southern steamboat.

  Earlier in the work, this same "mulatto boy named George," is represented as boldly entering into a hotel in Kentucky, within a few miles of his master's residence, (from which he has just made his escape) as a "well-dressed gentlemanly man," who drives up in his buggy, escorted by his negro servant, having assumed no other disguise than the dyeing of his hair and face, to pass himself for a Spanish complexioned gentleman.
  "He was very tall, with a dark Spanish complexion, no expressive black eyes, and close curling hair, also of a glossy blackness. His well-formed, aquiline nose, straight thin lips, and the admirable contour of his finely-turned limbs, impressed the whole company instantly with the idea of something uncommon. He walked easily in among the company, and with a nod indicated to his waiter where to place his trunk, bowed to the company, and, with his hat in his hand, walked up, leisurely, to the bar, and gave in his name," &c., &c.

  In the meanwhile, although "the whole party examined the new comer, with the interest with which a set of loafers, in a rainy day, usually examine every new comer," this elegant gentleman seems to pass muster, as true white blood.

  "The landlord was all-obsequious, and a relay of about seven negroes, old and young, male and female, little and big, were soon whizzing about like a covey of partridges, bustling, hurrying, treading on each other's toes, and tumbling over each other in their zeal to get massa's room ready, while he seated himself easily in a chair, in the middle of the room, and entered into conversation with the man who sat next to him."—(vol. 1, p. 160.)

  These quotations are so delightfully racy, that we find it difficult to abridge them. But we are fast nearing the utmost limits of our article, and must stop. The readers of these volumes will find in them, one mass of gross misrepresentation and ridiculous blundering. The authoress is so ignorant of Southern life and slave institutions, that she does not know how very far she leaves behind her, the track of probability, and her vouchers of the Westminster, might, perhaps, if induced to reconsider the matter, be gracious enough to acknowledge, that there are some things quite "possible within the law," and yet impossible in nature. We know of no human law forbidding the moon to be green cheese, and the inhabitants of this globe from establishing a balloon communication, and furnishing the universal market with the commodity: thereby, seriously conducing to the detriment of all future generations, who would thus, by our greedy avarice, be seriously curtailed in their due allowance of moonshine. And yet it will hardly be contended that it is the "privilege of the artist" to make such the material of anything but a "Mother Goose" fairy tale. Mrs. Stowe has wandered almost as far from the possible. If she has not given us moons of green cheese, she has given what is just as far from God's creation, a nation of men without heart, without soul, without intellect; a nation, too, (strange incongruity!) of cultivated human beings, so ignorant of right and wrong, so dead to all morality, that it were an insult to Deity, to believe in their existence. So anomalous a creation was never sent by God upon this earth, and satan or Mrs. Stowe must claim the honour of the invention.
  We thought we had done; but one point more we must glance upon. Mrs. Stowe, in spite of experience, in spite of science, determines that the negro is intellectually the white man's equal. She "has lived on the frontiers of a slave State," "she has the testimony of missionaries," &c., and "her deductions, with regard to the capabilities of the race, are encouraging in the highest degree." Bravo! Mrs. Stowe! Your deductions are bold things, and override sense and reason with wonderful facility. Perhaps they would become a little more amenable to ordinary reasoning, if, instead of living "on the frontiers of a slave State," you should see fit to carry your experience, not theoretically, but practically, into the heart of one; or still better, perhaps, avoiding the contaminating system, to explore at once the negro nature in its negro home, and behold in native majesty the undegraded negro nature. In native and in naked majesty, the lords of the wild might probably suggest more appreciable arguments, for difference of race, than any to which Mrs. Stowe has chosen to hearken. The negro alone has, of all races of men, remained entirely without all shadow of civilization.* It is a mere quibble to talk of his want of opportunities and instruction. Where were the white man's opportunities and instruction, when the power of mind guided him to the destiny for which Heaven created him? when, by the sunlight of reason, he burst a bonds of ignorance, and, echoing the Almighty fiat, "let there be light," saw the day beam, which still to the negro was darkness? What guide had he? what opportunities? what instruction? further than the God-given intellect which nature has denied to his lowlier fellow? The white man needed no leading strings. God created him for the leader and the teacher. The mind of the white man sprang by its own power to that eminence which to the negro nature is unattainable.
  Mrs. Stowe herself has, evidently most unintentionally, shown that however her theories and her fanaticism may lead her opinions, instinct, even in her mind, is endeavouring to point her right, Every where in her book is the mulatto represented as the man superior to, and suffering in his position. She has been obliged, wherever she has introduced her fugitives into the hearts of white families, and fraternized them with their white protectors, to represent these fugitives as white, with the slightest possible negro tint. Even she has not dared to represent the negro in those scenes where she has boldly introduced the mulatto. Even she would not have dared to paint a pretty little Quakeress liberator snatching up a negro bantling and covering it with kisses, and putting the mother into her own bed, and "snugly tucking her in," as she does by the white mulattoes whom she introduces. Even in her, the instinct of race is too strong. She dares not so belie her nature. She takes the mulatto as an approach to the white man, gives scope enough to her fancy to make him a thorough white, and then goes ahead with her romance. The real unfortunate being throughout her work is the mulatto. The negro, except where her imagination has manufactured for him such brutes of masters as are difficult to conceive, seems well enough suited to his position. It is the mulatto whom she represents as homeless and hopeless; and we confess that, in fact, although far below her horrible imaginings, his position is a painful one. Nature, who has suited her every creation to its destined end, seems to disavow him as a monstrous formation which her hand disowns. Raised in intellect and capacity above the black, yet incapable of ranking with the white, he is of no class and no caste. His happiest position is probably in the slave States, where he quietly passes over a life, which, we thank God, seems like all other monstrous creations, not capable of continuous transmission. This mongrel breed is a most painful feature, arising from the juxtaposition of creatures, so differing in nature as the white man and tho negro; but it is a feature which, so far from being the result of slavery, is rather checked by it. The same unhappy being must occasionally exist, wherever the two peoples are brought in contact, and much more frequently where abolition license prevails, than under the rules and restraints of slavery.
  To conclude. We have undertaken the defence of slavery in no temporizing vein. We do not say it is a necessary evil. We do not allow that it is a temporary make-shift to choke the course of Providence for man's convenience. It is not "a sorrow and a wrong to be lived down." We proclaim it, on the contrary, a Godlike dispensation, a providential caring for the weak, and a refuge for the portionless. Nature's outcast, as for centuries he appeared to be, be—even from the dawning of tradition, the homeless, houseless, useless negro—suddenly assumes a place, suddenly becomes one of the great levers of civilization. At length the path marked out for him by Omniscience becomes plain. Unfit for all progress, so long as left to himself, the negro has hitherto appeared, simply as a blot upon creation, and already the stronger races are, even in his own land, threatening him with extinction. Civilization must spread. Nature seems to require this, by a law as stringent as that through which water seeks its level. The poor negro, astounded by the torrent of progress, which, bursting over the world, now hangs menacingly (for to the wild man is not civilization always menacing?) above him, would vainly follow with the stream, and is swept away in the current. Slavery, even in his own land, is his destiny and his refuge from extinction. Beautifully has the system begun to expand itself among us. Shorn of the barbarities with which a slavery established by conquest and maintained by brute force is always accompanied, we have begun to mingle with it the graces and amenities of the highest Christian civilization. Have begun, we say, for the work is but begun. The system is far from its perfection, and at every step of its progress is retarded by a meddling fanaticism, which has in it, to borrow a quotation from Mrs. Stowe herself, "a dread, unhallowed necromancy of evil, that turns things sweetest and holiest to phantoms of horror and affright." Our system of slavery, left to itself, would rapidly develop its higher features, softening at once to servant and to master. The satanic school of arguers are far too much inclined to make capital of man's original sin, and to build upon this foundation a perfect tower of iniquitous possibilities, frightful even to imagine. Men are by no means as hopelessly wicked as Mrs. Stowe and others of this school would argue; and these would do well to remember, that when God created man, "in the image of God created he him;" and though "sin came into the world and death by sin," yet is the glorious, though clouded, image still there, and erring man is still a man, and not a devil.
  We, too, could speculate upon the possibilities of this system, and present a picture in beautiful contrast with Mrs. Stowe's, as purely bright as hers is foully dark; but, as we remarked earlier in our argument, the fairest reasoning is not from what a system might be, but from what it is. We grant that there is crime, there is sin, there is abuse of power under our laws; but let the abolitionist show us any rule where these are not. Utopias have been vainly dreamed. That system is the best which, not in theory, but in practice, brings the greatest sum of good to the greatest number. We challenge history, present and past, to show any system of government which, judged by this test, will be found superior to the one we defend.

  "Oh liberté!" exclaimed Mme. Roland, when led to the scaffold, "que de crimes a t'on commis en ton nom!" Theoretic virtues are more dangerous than open vice. Cloaks for every crime, they are pushed boldly forward, stifling our natural sense of practical right, and blinding men with the appearance of a righteousness, which dazzles like the meteor, but warms not like the sun. Theoretic liberty and theoretic bread satisfy neither the hungry soul nor the hungry stomach, and many a poor fugitive to the land of freedom, sated full with both, has wept to return to the indulgent master and the well filled corn-crib. The negro, left to himself, does not dream of liberty. He cannot indeed grasp a conception which belongs so naturally to the brain of the white man. In his natural condition, he is, by turns, tyrant and slave, but never the free man. You may talk to the blind man of light, until he fancies that he understands you, and begins to wish for that bright thing which you tell him he has not; but vainly he rolls his sightless orbs, unhappy that he cannot see the brightness of that beam, whose warmth before sufficed to make him happy. Thus it is with the moral sunbeam of the poor negro. He cannot see nor conceive the "liberty" which you would thrust upon him, and it is a cruel task to disturb him in the enjoyment of that life to which God has destined him. He basks in his sunshine, and is happy. Christian slavery, in its full development, free from the fretting annoyance and galling bitterness of abolition interference, is the brightest sunbeam which Omniscience has destined for his existence.
L. S. M.



BLACK LETTERS;

OR UNCLE TOM-FOOLERY IN LITERATURE.
  THAT sudden popularity and success are not always evidences of merit to be relied upon, Barnum has taught us with the Wooly Horse, Tom Thumb, and his Mermaid. Locke's moon hoax, if we remember, was for a while the rage, and deceived astronomers royal and republican; and the whole French people, in a frenzy of patriotic devotion to Napoleon I., have shown the world the "pink and model of an emperor," in a very scurvy fellow. And in the sudden hurrah which bursts from the throats of the many over the "Cabin literature," we feel no certainty that Milton, Shakespeare, Byron, Wordsworth, Scott, and Cooper, are in any imminent danger of being burned by the hands of the common hangman, to the tantaralara of an African dance. The truth is, nothing has a slower growth than truth—nothing is, for a time, more fertile and luxuriant than error. A popular rage for any thing is a pretty good test of its worthlessness, and when the book presses are occupied with prurient French novels, sanctified dissertations upon negro carousals, and puritanical eulogies of blasphemous psalm-singing, almost to the exclusion of the Bible and healthy and robust works, we need scarcely stop to prove that the devil is having a pretty good time of it among the sons of men—or that such taste is false and damnable.

  Our female agitators have abandoned Bloomers in despair, and are just now bestride a new hobby—an intense love of black folks, in fashionable novels! Flannel ceases to be cut into garments for the children of Africa, but they are most intolerably drenched with ink—on the principle, we suppose, of "like to like." If wo, expressed in big capital letters, had the power of tears, we should be in danger of a second deluge on Chestnut street some fine morning; but this sort of grief, even when illustrated with very sorry engravings, is intended to deplete the pocket—so you need not get out your handkerchief, dear madam! but open your pocket-book to its widest capacity. Sambo is a pretty good gold-digger, just now—work him who will; and those who

"Would not have a slave to till their ground,"

  use him pretty severely in the press-room.

  We have a regular incursion of the blacks. The shelves of booksellers groan under the weight of Sambo's woes, done up in covers! What a dose we have had and are having! The population of readers has gone a wool-gathering! Our "Helots of the West" are apparently at a premium with the publishers just now; and we have Northern folks as anxious to make money of them, as the Southerners can be, for their lives. A plague of all black faces! We hate this niggerism, and hope it may be done away with. We cannot tolerate negro-slavery of this sort—we are abolitionists on this question! If we are threatened with any more negro stories—here goes! We will call our retainers together and arm them; we will raise the slogan of Montrose; we will gather a band of our contributors (some tall fellows among them!—Herbert, who describes a battle so well, would fight one, "like four," as the French say!) and go into the South to put down negrodom! "Graham" could do this—just as easily as Abraham long ago armed about 318 of his "trained servants," and pursued the enemy unto Dan. Besides, he might have the assistance of a garrison along with his army! Well, we hope we shall not be provoked. It is all very well for the South to talk of the negro excitements, and to take things to heart. If they had to read all those negro-books that overflow us, North of Mason and Dixon's line, then, indeed, we should despair of them. We don't want, therefore, to hear any more complaints from Georgia or Carolina. Tis we, the readers of the North, who are aggrieved by these blasts and counter-blasts, and none have a better right to be angry, and talk of nullification than we have.

  In the name of the Prophet—not the bookseller's profit!—let us have done with this woolly-headed literature; let us have a change; let us have a reaction. We see reactions at work every day—the democracies of 1848 have run back as fast as they ran forward. Let us have a literary reaction here. Let us go back to our original Mexican brigands, our fresh Texans, with their big beards and unerring "Beeswings," our Prairie heroines, and all that wonderful adventure which is only sunburnt, at the deepest. Let us have the breathless "Romance of the Lowell Factory Girl," the thrilling "Pirate of the Chesapeake," the "Mystery of the Modern Gomorrah," the "Dark Monk of Wissawampanoag." We are really weary of preaching negroes, and "Mas'r," and " spects Ise wicked," and "that yer ole man," and "dat ar nigger." We want something refreshing. Seriously speaking—our writers who would take the public ear, should turn to something worthier than these negro subjects. Where is the great need of going to the black section of the population in quest of themes, while the broader and richer domains of the better races lie before them? No doubt this negro-department offers many temptations to the lazy and feeble, who find its grotesque peculiarities—its animal vivacities, and somewhat comic slang much more easy of representation than the feelings and modes of action of our own class. By mis-spelling words, managing them like Mrs. Malaprop, or her plagiarist, Mrs. Partington, and powdering a sentence with the negro-cacophony, you have a better chance of tickling the tastes of the many than by any thing you could bring out in the common, correct syntax of Lindley Murray. The temptation is very great, indeed; but after all, the honor is very small.
  We have read these negro-books, solemn reader—not for the love of them, but to know what it was that the booksellers and critics were placarding and puffing about, at such a rate. The first of these works is Uncle Tom's Cabin. It has a certain feminine vivacity of style which takes the reader, in spite of its faults—and we, therefore, giving the lady the pas, call her up first for examination. Regarding the success of the "Cabin"—the exaggerated success, we believe—we have been trying to account for it, independently of the merits, which are not sufficient cause for such an effect. The somewhat angry differences between the North and South of the Union, gave, undoubtedly, a mischievous zest to the work in the first place. In the next, the machinery of the newspapers was brought into judicious and persevering play, and the notoriety produced by the press did more for it than any thing else. The thing was pushed forward with a more than literary aim, and has had a more than literary success. It was made the watch-word in the Abolition ranks. The reflection of English opinion did wonders. The John Bulls are never sorry to have an opportunity of twitting and taking down that irreverent Jonathan, who brags and expectorates in such an overbearing way; and "slavery" is the favorite moral cowhide with which the islanders love to lick him. They lay on him with a wonderful gusto—such as you could only find among angry brothers. Any thing that cockers and cherishes their abstract horror of negro-slavery is welcome to the English, whether they reflect, pharisaically, on the sins of that whittling fellow, or honestly believe what they read.

  And so the reception of the "Cabin" in England was very genial—it was so pleasant to pray for that reprobate, Jonathan! The Times, to be sure, and a few other shrewd organs, saw the thing in all its bearings, and gave a very blunt opinion of it. But, in a sentimental way, Lord Carlisle—our sometime visitor, Lord Morpeth—and the moralists, had the advantage of these cosmopolite critics, as far as the curious public were concerned. Indeed, the fact of a lord coming out in favor of any thing of the kind was enough to give it instant vogue among the English, and his lordship's recommendation was certainly the strongest foreign puff of the "Cabin." The New York Post, and kindred presses, certainly helped to sell their thousands; but the Earl of Carlisle sold his tens of thousands. When once any sort of a book is talked of, for any one reason or another, people must have it, in self-defense, and so vires acquiret eundo—it gathers as it goes, like a rolling snowball in the Oberland. Half the machinery of the whole business would have procured nearly as great a notoriety for any book thoroughly spiced with horrors.

  All these aids, and the proclivity of human nature to fall in with a growing rumor and to swell a sudden fashion, will explain the extraordinary run of Uncle Tom's Cabin. Mr. Barnum has proved, in the course of his life, that any great merit in the object of a furor is not indispensably necessary to the volitare per ora virum and the gathering of renown and mammon. A notoriety or celebrity can be improvised, now-a-days—done to order. A lively dinning is kept up for a time in the ears of the people, and then, like bees that come swarming to the music of brass candlesticks, they follow the noise: et voila tout!

  So much for the remarkable sale of Mrs. Stowe's book—so greatly beyond its deserts. The book is vastly overrated and will soon find its level. It is written for an occasion, and will pass with those objects of excitement to which it has chief reference. It is clumsily constructed and inartificial—proving that her strong didactic feelings overpowered in the author any thing like a sense of what is artistic. She has one object always in view—one sentiment to express, and her feelings are poured out upon it to the neglect of every thing else. Mrs. Stowe feels vehemently on the subject of personal tyranny, and the disruption of dear ties by the separation of negro parents, wives and children; and this is womanly and natural, of course. But she allows her feelings to overpower her judgment in the arrangement of her narrative; and the latter has a tone of exaggeration in consequence, which must counteract the aim of the writer, inasmuch as it injures the vraisemblances of the tale.

  The plot of Uncle Tom's Cabin—"the plot, Lord bless you, there is none to tell, sir"—the plot is feeble; it is strung and tacked together in a very unworkmanlike way. In the series of scenes which go to make it up, our feelings of interest are a good deal jolted backward and forward, between Uncle Tom and the St. Clare family on one side, and Eliza and the melodramatic George on the other. Uncle Tom is an exaggeration—a monster of perfection—

"A faultless monster, which the world ne'er saw."

  He is only fit for a high, pure part on the stage; and, indeed, he has already gone on it, as if with a consciousness of "the eternal fitness of things." We cannot take cordially to that big, wise black. We require to have a dash of human infirmity in our favorite heroes—we look for a little gravel along with the soft food for our critical gizzard. Why, in one respect, Uncle Tom is as inhuman as Legree! We should have liked Thomas much better if he had fairly agreed with Chloe that Shelby was an ungrateful man, and had told him so, or had given Legree some ill-language, in a high fit of human exasperation. George is semi-Castilian and chiefly melodramatic—well enough, however, for the part he plays. Cassy is a caricature of human passion and suffering, and Legree is as much a man in buckram as George. He comes up strongly on the stage, however—makes a good, ferocious character and touches the gallery very effectively.

  Mrs. Stowe, as we have said, relies on her own feelings, and writes as they are affected, without thinking steadily of her characters. She introduces Topsy, and wishing to show that a long course of evil example and neglect cannot be neutralized at once, she makes Topsy show it—to the discomfiture of Miss Ophelia. Afterward, wishing to show a sudden conversion, a sudden revulsion of feeling, countervailing all the influences of the aforesaid evil example, she makes use of the very same Topsy to show it. In this Mrs. Stowe is true to herself, but somewhat fallacious as regards the claims of a consistent story. Cassy is a bizarre creation—a helpless desperado, as flighty and ferocious as a wild-cat, and it really knocks our ideas of what is just, artistic and true into pi, to see how mild and comfortable she turns out, in the end, over hot cake and tea in that virtuous Canadian cabin! Mrs. Stowe here reverses the monster of the Roman Horace; but it is a fair monster for all that—scaly enough at the beginning and ending in a womanly way. Think of Cassy threatening to give Legree his quietus with a bare hatchet—murder him, in fact—"I'll send him where he belongs—a short way, too, one of these nights—if they burn me alive for it!" While the story goes on, in the next breath: "there was a graceful and compassionate sweetness in her (Cassy's) voice and manner," as she bustled about to make Tom comfortable! Then there are Sambo and Quimbo. Up to a certain point they are black rascals and behave pretty fairly "as sich." They are a pair of case-hardened reprobates, and, artistically speaking, unexceptional, till, unhappily for their consistency of character, Mrs. Stowe brings them into a scene where her own feelings are roused to a climax—very justifiably no doubt—and they lose themselves in an impossible ecstasy of piety, to our great discomfiture; after that we give them up! When they have done Legree's bidding and flogged Uncle Tom to death's door, in the most brutal way—"Sartin, we's been doin' a drefful thing," sighs Sambo the savage.

  "O, Tom," exclaims Quimbo the man-queller, "we's been awful wicked to ye!"

  “O, Tom! do tell us who Jesus is, anyhow," sobs Sambo the savage!

  Tom then prays energetically to the Almighty, and—mark what follows! "They wept, both the two savage men!" They have repented on the spot. Tom then cries, in a strong agony of love: "O, Lord, give me those two more souls, I pray!" and he gets them forthwith. "That prayer was answered"—Mrs. Stowe assures us! What, in the name of common sense, can be said of this astounding business? Why, that Mrs. Stowe is a woman of strong humane feelings which run away with her, clean, and make her forget she is making a book—whisk her from the desk of the novelist to the pulpit of the revivalist. It is impious to suppose that Heaven will accept such a pair of devils as Sambo and Quimbo; and we have only to say, that we reject them positively. Mrs. Stowe wishes to raise the negroes in our estimation by saying they have a warmth of impulse—a credulous impressibility. Now these are things that act both ways—both on the wrong side as well as the right. That vivacity of emotion is only good when it is in the right way. Religion is the right way, of course. But we must say we do not agree with the author that a love of hymn-choruses and holdings-forth are high moral characteristics. We fear that, with the negroes, religion is often a monomania—a feeling vehement from its narrowness, and existing mostly in expression. That suddenness of conversion is a very unhealthy and unnatural thing; it cannot be a true thing. If the pendulum swings violently one way, you may suspect it will have a tendency to go back the other way. Many of the hymns sung by the negroes do not meet our ideas as favorably as they do those of Mrs. Stowe. They are entirely too irreverent and have too strong an animal taint for our ideas of spiritual worship. But let us get out of this theological swamp—for fear of skeeters!

  In the character of St. Clare, also, Mrs. Stowe rather loses herself—or finds herself—and draws him from his natural role. As a careless, good-natured philosopher, he is very well, and talks in a very gentlemanly way. He accepts the institution, in a fair-and-easy tolerant spirit, and always withstands the rigid philanthropy of Miss Ophelia. But the author wants to have a strong tirade against the South, and having no mouth more convenient, she puts it into his. He delivers it, vehemently, and the whole thing jars against our notions of personal consistency. Even Miss Ophelia is astonished, and says it out-abolishes the abolitionists themselves. But well she may. But Mrs. Stowe never allows trifles to stand in the way of her didactic purpose. To emphasize the fault of good men who delay till their death the manumission of slaves, she kills off St. Clare in the turning of a page. The truth is, that all these characters, Tom, Topsy, Cassy, Sambo, Quimbo, &c., are not living people; they are only Mrs. Stowe's feelings dressed up—her emotions transfigured on paper. When we go to the South we will not look out for one of them—either in Kentuck or Louisiana. We know they are not there.

  Mrs. Stowe's style is as careless as her plot. We can understand that, writing for the "Era," perhaps in a hurry, she had not time to trim or prune; though a correct writer scarce needs any such work. But she should not have let her slovenliness show itself in the book. In her description of Topsy, for instance, Mrs. Stowe uses the word odd half a dozen times in something over a dozen lines. There are many such instances of carelessness. Mrs. Stowe offends us very often in the matter of style—which, after all, is to the writer what discipline is to the soldier. The negroes need not talk English, of course; but St. Clare and the Anglo-Saxon folk should speak correctly and avoid localisms and vulgarisms. As we have said, Mrs. Stowe's characters speak too much of her own feelings to affect us with a strong sense of their reality. No doubt there is a great deal of heart and spirit in the dialogues. Topsy speaks very well, and is a general favorite; so is Eva, and so is St. Clare. The vivacity of the book is undoubted, and to that, and to the familiar and stirring incidents, such as catch the tastes of the many all over the world, the "Cabin" owes some of its popularity. It also has that seasoning of melodrama which that tender-hearted monster—the public—loves so dearly in books or on the stage. But, after doing justice to the spirit and earnestness of the work, we are still happy to think it has not power enough to cause as much mischief as some have supposed. Indeed, were Mrs. Stowe's book ten times more meritorious and forcible than it is, the existing sense of this community, and its growing tendencies—political or otherwise—would neutralize it. It is hopeless to look for any more exasperations on account of slavery, or to think it can ever be done away with by vituperation or the high hand.
  The Times was right in saying that, as a means of abolition, Uncle Tom was a mistake and would be a failure. A wonderful thing, certainly, to see the Times coming out, in such a cosmopolite spirit, for the peace and integrity of this Union. It shows that a strong force of English opinion is growing up in favor of non-intermeddling in our domestic policy. We can easily see the reason of this feeling among politicians; but the thing is so. The Britons are, in fact, beginning to think we are getting along as well as can be expected, and that any thing which would make mischief in these states would be a misfortune for the world. They are beginning to think slavery cannot be dragged up violently—that our barn is not to be burnt to roast our chestnuts. That vexed question is certainly treated more reasonably in England within the last year. This is a very significant sign of the times; and all things considered, we can come to the conclusion that the influence of Mrs. Stowe's fiction can be but very slight ultimately on the steady, practical opinions of the English. In our own country we have had as decided an expression of feeling latterly. The press every where, with a few exceptions, is in favor of a brotherly treatment of the slave question, befitting those who argue the matter under the same roof, as it were. The most prominent of those newspapers which would conscientiously rejoice to see slavery at an end, deprecate harsh language or coercion, and say that none but quiet, kindly courses will ever do. Nay, the National Era itself—the paper in which Uncle Tom first appeared—asserts that the emancipation of the negro can only be expected from the people of the South themselves! These things show what a change for the better is coming over the minds of men—in place of that barren exasperation we have lately witnessed. The people of this Union will entertain no thought or sentiment which would tend to compromise its integrity—knowing, as they do, that the hope of oppressed humanity all over the globe is entwined with the power and prosperity of our republic, and that if it were broken up and frittered away, the world would be good for nothing but another drowning at the hands of the Almighty. With such ideas we cannot give way to literary fancies, or lightly encourage those enthusiasms, ebullitions, animosities—those angry passions which would make

"The children of one family
Fall out and chide and fight."
  Our mighty hands were never made to tear each other's eyes.

  The slave-owners will not be bullied into any thing, and they have a natural regard for their homes and properties. People talk of the glory of England's negro emancipation. The glory of it was that the government took twenty millions of money belonging to the English people and purchased the freedom of the slaves—gave compensation for them. In this country, compensation to our fellow citizens for the sacrifice of their property consequent on emancipation is never talked of. If the abolitionists of the North had their property in slaves, we should like to hear their opinions on the matter. Would they be so ready to give all up—to sacrifice every thing to principle? The idea of such Yankee chivalry is funny enough.

  As for the condition of the slaves, it is false to say it is as bad as that of the Irish, the Italians, the Highland Scotch, or the English poor in the manufacturing towns. All these are slaves in every hard practical sense of the word but one, and that's a mere matter of idea. The separation of children from brothers, parents, and each from all the rest, is even more cruel in the old pauper countries that it can be here in the South. They who talk of human misery should take in the whole picture—it would save him from the monomania that attends narrow views. It would not lessen his desire to do good, but it would save him from fanaticism. No doubt the world is a wicked place, and men are a bad concern altogether, deserving to be hanged or drowned. But the Supreme Ruler will not take to violent measures. He tolerates largely, in fact.

  Under such circumstances, we think there may be better ways of coming at ends considered good, than by running full tilt against opposition like Don Quixote. In this business of negro slavery, we should remember the moral of Aesop's story. The Constitutional Sun and the Abolitionist North Wind once tried which could soonest oblige a traveler to throw off his cloak. The wind blew great guns, and nearly cracked its cheeks against the wayfarer, who for that reason only drew the cloak tighter about him. Then came the sun, using his influence in a slow, soft way, and the man soon walked in his jerkin. That's a shorter story than Mrs. Stowe's—"an older and a better," whatever Jewett & Co. may think.

  But here is another book—"The Cabin and the Parlor." The bane and antidote are both before us. Mr. J. T. Randolph here enters the lists against the lady, and we think he has the best end of the staff in this argument. Summing up our conclusions, we are of the opinion that the "Cabin and Parlor" has the advantage in plot or story, and that "Uncle Tom's Cabin" has the advantage in the spirit of the dialogue, if not in description. The plot of the former is as follows:
  Mr. Courtenay, a wealthy slave-owner, kind to negroes, dies suddenly, and leaves his family in as sudden poverty—consequent on some mercantile fatality which drives them from their home. His daughter, the beautiful Isabel, about to be wedded to a Northern suitor, is forced to keep a miserable little school; her little brother goes to the North to earn something, and the mother and youngest child live solely on Isabel's small salary. The Yankee lover has taken his departure along with the prosperity. There are Uncle Peter and Aunt Violet—corresponding to Uncle Tom and Aunt Chloe, and Charles and Cora—corresponding to George and Eliza. Charles and Cora run away, too, and escape—after Uncle Peter and Violet refuse to go with them:

But there,
I ween, all likeness ends between the pair.
  The fugitives feel like fish out of water in the North. They are separated, and see each other seldom. Then the city rowdies attack the negro quarter, and send them flying for their lives. Charles at last dies of consumption, and Cora flies back with her child to the South as if to a refuge. Young Horace Courtenay also goes to a large city, and becomes errand-boy to a bloodless philanthropist—Mr. Sharpe, at a dollar a week. The boy dies in a garret. Walworth, a fine young fellow from the South, leaving Sharpe's house one day, stumbles at the door on the poor Irishwoman—in whose garret Horace is dying, and who had asked Sharpe in vain for relief, and goes with her to see the boy die. Meantime, poor Isabel, her mother, and brother suffer from penury in their cottage, relieved from time to time by the gifts and good offices of Uncle Peter—who has been sold to a neighbor. Walworth arrives at the cottage with the story and dying messages of Horace. The reader, of course, knows what next.

We do not write for that dull elf,
Who cannot figure to himself
  the upshot of the tale. The tables are soon turned. The Courtenays get back their money in a providential and well-timed way, by means of a rough-diamond of a Dr. Worthington; and when Walworth and Isabel are married, they go to the restored old house, with its restored old servants (for the servants all come back, too,) in the midst of a jolly negro tantararara—full of tears, thanks, transports, fiddling, philandering, and feasting. Such is the outline; and it is pretty fairly filled up; but there are many blemishes to be met with. Mr. Randolph does not manage his dialogues and conversations too well. When Isabel tells Dr. Worthington that she will keep a little school—"The devil!" said the Doctor; for the idea of one so luxuriously bred as Isabel having to earn her livelihood deprived him of self-command. We protest we do not see why it should have done so, or why he was called on to make such an exclamation to the young lady. Mrs. Courtenay, repining against bacon and wishing for chicken that she could not afford, giving, moreover, "a sigh to whole barrels of sugar," is rather anti-pathetic and not in character. There was no need to talk so much about the wittles. Mr. Randolph has some bizarreries of style, which are most plainly visible in the strong pathetic scenes. Such scenes are, in fact, the great tests of a writer's power and judgment. Our author, describing the sinking of Isabel in the snow (where she is nearly smothered,) says "the word Saviour fluttered from her weak lips. They were heard, in awe-struck silence, by the elements around; and with a howl of despair, as if some demon had been cheated of his prey, the gale began again!" This is outrageously bad. We go for as much poetry as man in a reasonable way, but that behavior of the wind is rather strong! It is on a par with Mrs. Stowe's extravagant scene of Uncle Tom's death, and the startling piety of the two black rascals. A good many faults of this kind may be found in Mr. Randolph's book. But it has some very excellent descriptions—such as the negro quarter in the great city, the attack of the mob upon it, and the wild doings of the streets. These scenes are represented with animation. The negro characters fairly drawn—that of Tony, in particular,
Tickling the dried guts of a mewing cat,
with such enthusiasm; and the tone and manner of the rest of the dark personages seem to be true and natural enough. Mr. Randolph draws his moral effectively from the worse than slavery and death of little Horace, from the disasters of Charles and Cora, and the brutalized condition of free negroes in the Northern cities. But he is particularly good in the arguments urged, at one time, by Walworth against the Englishman who objurgates slavery, and against the Bostonian who talks abolition on another occasion. The Briton cannot deny that there is serfage in England, and the Bostonian cannot deny that the condition of free negroes in Northern cities says very little for the ameliorating effects of liberty. The arguments of Walworth embody the philosophy of the matter, and the best defense of the South. We perceive that the ladies of England, under the leadership of the Duchess of Sutherland, have been talking in conclave on the subject of negro-slavery with us—flushed up a little by Mrs. Stowe's book. They have be-stowed an address on the ladies of the United States, desiring them to try and do away with slavery. We think no better reply to that address could be sent back than one that might be furnished from the arguments of Walworth. Really, Mr. Randolph, after having overtaken Mrs. Stowe, should undertake the duchess. There are about three millions of paupers in the British Isles—ignorant, vicious, and degraded; and it is a good-natured piece of sublime impudence in John Bull, or his wife, or his daughters, to throw the negroes into Jonathan's teeth, while such a heap of national opprobrium lies reeking under their noses.
  The argument against emancipation on this continent is a good one. What would the negroes do, if they were free amongst us? Nothing at all—or next to nothing. They have not the muscle or mind of the European races. If freed here, they would refuse to work—preferring to grow flabby with idleness and impious psalm-singing. Carlyle is right in denouncing the lazy philosophy of the blacks. All the dwellers on this continent must work, otherwise the whole national machinery must get out of order. The emancipation of the Southern negroes would be a disastrous policy—as cruel to the blacks as injurious to the general interests of society. Let us look to Jamaica. The London Times has been lately speaking of that island and the deplorable condition of its black people. It asserts that the British emancipation experiment is a failure; that Sambo won't work; that "his independence is little better than that of a captured brute!" Instead of becoming intelligent husbandmen, working in an orderly way, the negroes cut and shuffle about, like vagrants and squatters, enjoying their light pumpkin livelihood in a desultory way. They eat their vegetables and lie serenely seething in the sun, with the glorious stamp of liberty on their brows. The result is, that the property of the island is sinking, and it is feared that the civil institutions of the place will expire for want of revenues to support them. Sambo is his own master in Jamaica; and the island is going to the dogs, because that lazy man and brother will neither do man's nor brother's work. The end of all this will be that the negroes must be sent away out of the colony.
  To this end—a removal of the race—we must come at last. Mrs. Stowe is in favor of the system of deportation to Africa; and the sooner the negroes can find their way to a nation of their own, the better. At this moment, when improved navigation is opening all the seas of the world to all the races thereof, Asiatics are crowding Eastward and supplanting the negro people. When that result shall fairly arrive, the remedy will appear as an inevitable consequence. Our Southern fellow citizens will find the cheap labor of Chinese, Coolies, &c., more profitable than any other; the last negro serf will disappear after the last free negro. It is as inevitable as destiny; but the North and South must stand shoulder to shoulder—AND WILL.

  When that day comes, if the agitators wish to see philanthropy munificently done, they have only to instruct Uncle Sam to open his heart and his money drawers. If we have any right to offer one hundred millions for the blacks of Cuba—and some sagacious statesman proposes to do it—let us be charitable: begin at home, and pay our fellow-citizens for theirs. It is a fair prescription for a desperate disease; but, if there is a better, let us have it by all means.

  We have no doubt that the people of the South desire such a consummation as this, as much as those of the North. The Southerners have as little abstract love of slavery as the Boreans; but they must sustain it for some time, or plunge the Southern States into confusion—such confusion as reigns in Jamaica. Time, who was the agent in opening the eyes of the calculating Northerns, to the evil of a useless system, where there was neither tobacco nor cotton to grow, will probably be yet enabled to do the same for the palmetto republicans—the gens palmarum. Nothing else will do. Neither motions in Congress, able editorials, nor fancy stories with a large circulation, will do more than oblige the lovers of justice and the Union, to look still more practically and sensibly on the great argument, and labor the more to prevent fanaticism from exasperating it. The more we think of it, the sooner do we lose that theoretical flush of the feelings with which we all regard the question at first, and the more do we recognize the fair, fraternal right of the South. And for this result we thank such writers as Mrs. Stowe. They rouse us to cogitate and compare.

  We meant to say something of the other black books—those literary nigritudes—those little tadpoles of the press—sable bodies and stirring tales. But let them go. Let us say nothing about them—but look at them and pass by.

  We have thought over this subject very deliberately, and we do not find—even under the inspiration of these novels, which run to editions of hundreds of thousands—that we are a whit more convinced, than by the very sober prose of Greeley and Doctor Bailey, that "the question is all on one side." Say what we will, we commenced living together—North and South—under some very express and many implied contracts, and no fine hair-splitting in morals can make that act an honest one which is a clear evasion, if not an open violation, of the agreement. If the South have combustible materials about them, and we undertook not to damage their property by firing it at midnight, we have no right to be letting off fire-crackers all around the house in the day time, for the amusement of young Jonathans in breeches or petticoats. The South may very properly say to us—"Look you, sir, you undertook to attend the Northern end of the farm, we have no fancy here for exploits of jugglery—you may beat even the Chinese in throwing unsheathed knives about our heads, but you had better be at home attending to business. If your time is not fully occupied in the field or workshop—go out into the lanes and alleys of your cities—feed the hungry, clothe the naked, and attempt to reclaim the abandoned and the outcast. You will find work for your hands, good sir, and meek madam; ample and urgent! We will take care of Sambo and Dinah; and come when you will, you will find them clothed and fed somewhere on the plantation. If they are sick, they shall be nursed, and, if possible, cured. You will not find one of them dying under the hedge, their very bones rotting from disease or starvation!"

  Ah! Brother of the North, what becomes of scores of laborers with you, whose sweat and sinews have enriched some gigantic capitalist at the cost of health and hope? When age comes upon him, or he is laid upon a bed of fever and languishing, fierce and prolonged, are his comforts attended to—his expenses paid? Unless you are greatly belied, you give "the laborer his hire"; but you give him no more. The sickly workman—is he not speedily cast adrift? Able-bodied man can be had, even with you, for dollars. The hollow cough of a consumptive operative is not music in factories, or the history of every year's toil is a lie! You do not, it is true, "sell" your hand—you have long ago taken the pith from his bones—the warmth from his blood: no, you do not sell him, neither could you a slave in the same condition; but you abandon him to want, wretchedness, and death. He may be a man—a free man, if you like; but could you do worse were he a dog? Go home, brother! each system has its evils; and, with each other's help, we shall cure them by and bye—but it will be by something else than talk! There will have to be some very earnest work, and some very manly sacrifices on both sides before that day. But it will come!
  We have taken up the "Cabin literature" for the purpose of saying frankly what we think of the whole business—for it is a business, and nothing more. We have spoken temperately and critically of the books, indignantly and perhaps warmly of the spirit which pervades them, and we say by way of emphasis, that we despise the whole concern—the spirit which dictated them is false. They are altogether speculations in patriotism—a question of dollars and cents, not of slavery or liberty. The whole literary atmosphere has become tainted with them—they are corrupt altogether and abominable. Many of the persons who are urging on this negro crusade into the domain of letters, have palms with an infernal itch for gold. They would fire the whole republic if they could but rake the gems and precious stones from the ashes. They care nothing for principle, honor or right, and though anxious to be regarded as martyrs, their chief concern is about the stakes. He would be an explorer worthy of all honor who could stumble upon a truth which they would not sacrifice for shillings.

  For the present we are done with this subject. We hope we are done with it forever.

  In the meanwhile, let us see the amiable publishers and writers and most valorous moralists, who are hurling stones at their brothers of the South, do a little something, from the great wealth thus achieved, for the free negroes of the North. Many of these bold reformers control influential presses, but we do not see Sambo educated by them to set their type, carry their papers, drive their presses, or keep their books. Cuffy is not in the editorial room with paste and scissors—no! he is in the street, lounging upon the cellar-door, in rags and degraded. If he could read, he would be astonished at the sympathy which that dapper little gentleman who has just past bestows—in type—upon his race. But we would advise Cuff not to presume upon his knowledge. We don't believe he could get a dollar out of his friend to save his soul—kicks we imagine would be more plentiful than coppers, and, unless Cuffy has a taste for oratory, he is not likely to get even a civil word from his white brother—and that only at an agitation meeting, where subscribers are to be picked up, and pretty Quaker girls, in youthful innocence, take poetry for Gospel.



We commence this morning the publication of a somewhat extended notice of "Uncle Tom’s Cabin," a book which has been more widely read and more generally noticed already than any other ever issued in this country, but which still has a fresh and profound interest for every class of readers, and in every section of the country. The review is written by a Southern gentleman, a lawyer of distinction, an accomplished scholar, and who has filled very high and responsible public stations with honor to himself and credit to the country. It presents naturally enough the opinion of the book generally entertained in the Southern States, where the work has been widely read, and where whatever good it is calculated to effect, will be accomplished. Such a book was scarcely needed to demonstrate to the people of the North the odiousness of many of the features of Southern slavery, and still less to stimulate the hostile intermeddling of officious persons of both sexes in Europe, with evils which, however responsible they may be for their existence, they can now do nothing whatever to remedy, and which their ill-judged action cannot fail to aggravate. But there are many things contained in the book which cannot fail to do good in the South, by directing the attention of those who have it in their power to apply a remedy, to many gross and glaring evils which have grown up in connection with Slavery as it exists in the Southern States. The review referred to, will be read, we think, with general interest.



SOUTHERN SLAVERY. A Glance at Uncle Tom's Cabin.
FIRST PAPER.

BY A SOUTHERNER.

  The time has come for a calm review of Mrs. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE’s book,—a book which has attracted so much attention, both at home and abroad. It is quite clear that the review must come from the South. The book cannot be fairly judged anywhere else in all the world; in truth, it cannot be comprehended anywhere else. Its style may be admired the world over, its vivid sketches of the lights and shadows of life, its life-like creation—presenting at one moment the loveliest impersonation of virtue, and at the next the most revolting embodiment of course vice,—gives powerful interest to the book, independent of the particular class or race whose wrongs it is intended to depict.

  The power of the book is not to be questioned. Its fidelity, its fairness, its morality we may venture to discuss; but it would be idle to deny that it is a powerful appeal to humanity; that it moves the soul in its very depths; and that it awakens the intensest interest in the fortunes of the humble hero of the story, and of all the personages in any way connected with him. A writer just beginning to be talked about, undertakes to show us that all popular superstitions are founded on some truth. In his argument, which is historical, he overlooks astrology, one of the most beautiful, fascinating, and commanding forms of speculative faith which the world has ever acknowledged, since the stars first glittered in the firmament.

  Without going out of our way just now to see how much we might be able to concede to this entertaining theory, we are ready to admit that no book, no ballad, no wild song of love or war, has ever moved the hearts of men, unless it professed some great element which allied it to truth.

  The heart, after all, even if it be not always loyal, yields its homage to the truth.

  Mrs.STOWE’s book professes this element, not as consistently, but as unmistakably, as the Pilgrim’s Progress or Robinson Crusoe. It utters the voice of humanity, sometimes in its saddest tones, and it is not to be wondered at that the world should bend its ear to listen to it. We can comprehend the charm of the Ranz des Vaches, though we hear it not echoing among the glaciers of Switzerland. So we may the awakening sounds of the wild Marsellaise, though we do not tread at the moment the Boulevards of Paris. They both find an echo in the calling of sweet memories of home; the others,—heroic associations,—the mustering of armed hoses, and battle-fields, whose men strike for Liberty.

  When in the Theatre at Rome, the noble sentiment was uttered—

"Homo sum, humanum nihil a me alienum puto,"

  the vast building resounded with applause: and DUGALD STEWART thought that it would, if well uttered by an actor in the most corrupt capital of modern Europe, produce the same effect. It is because of the sentiment, that a man must feel an interest in all that concerns humanity, is recognized at once as a great and generous truth, that its utterance could not fail to elicit prompt and vehement applause.

  There lies the secret power of Mrs. STOWE’s sketch of Life among the Lowly. It is not merely that it depicts the scenes in the life of a slave torn from his happy home, his family, his friends, and subjected to cruel treatment upon a Southern plantation; but it is because the glowing pages exhibit the chequered fortunes of a man displaying a character at every step of his eventful history, at once gentle and heroic. Through the darkening shadows of his later years, the beautiful lineaments of the Christian shine out clear, steady and strong; and we do not know whether the soul is most moved by admiration for the lofty courage and sublime faith of the expiring martyr, suffering, bleeding, sinking in the loneliness of a wretched hovel, without an eye to cheer, or a human voice to speak a word of sympathy; or with indignant detestation of the demon-like brutality of a wretch, without a single redeeming quality. Such a picture, drawn anywhere, would move us.

  Mrs. STOWE has been pleased to sketch it with transcendent artistic skill, with a Southern plantation for the back ground. She might move the world to tears as well over a sketch of some Indian family, separated from their tribe, perishing under the stern infliction of pioneer vengeance. Or she might, as Miss EDGEWORTH has already done, call our attention to a group in the midst of Ireland, neglected, naked, starving amidst the teeming fertility of that island, so beautiful, so luxuriant, and so wretched. Her pencil would have thrown the tints as well upon the canvas if it had been spread in the midst of the verdure of Ireland, as it did when she chose the slave plantation of Louisiana as the locale of her creations. It might not have been as acceptable a picture to grace the saloons of Stafford House as that which she has furnished in Uncle Tom’s Cabin; but it would have been quite as life-like. It is barely possible, too, that Mrs. STOWE might have found something very interesting and very painful to delineate in the manufacturing districts of England.

  Anywhere in all the world she might have found subjects for sketches of equal interest with that which has attracted so much attention; for, alas, human life abounds with scenes of wrong, of oppression, and of suffering. And Mrs. STOWE would invest any object with interest which she undertook to touch with her magic pencil. She would have made more of the story of BELISARIUS than Lord MAHON has done, who undertook the task of biography, attracted by so fine a subject. The blind, wandering old man—the story of a degenerate age—the hero who had led the Roman legions to victories which rivaled in splendor those of the best days of the Republic—suffering under the royal ingratitude—led through the streets of a capital which had resounded with shouts of triumph, as the tidings of his brilliant achievements had reached it, by the hand of his own son, with his cry of Date obolum Belisario, would make a fine subject for her pen. The semi-fabulous part of the story would adapt it to her genius, and afford scope for the exercise of her fine imagination. We commend this subject to Mrs. STOWE. The Life of Belisarius by her would be charming. It must be admitted that Uncle Tom’s Cabin is a book which no one can read with indifference; not only in the non-slaveholding States of our own country has it found favor; not only have twenty thousand copies been distributed within a few weeks through the North; not only has it received in England such a welcome as an American book never met before; not only has it been dramatized in France, and translated into the wide German tongue; but in the South it has it has been eagerly sought for; and planters—large slave-owners have, been moved to tears while reading its pages, or roused to indignation by its graphic sketches of wrong and cruelty. There can be no higher proof of the merits of the book as an artistic performance; for it is well understood to be an appeal to the civilized world against the social system of the Southern States.

  Let us see how this effect has been produced. In the sketches which Mrs. STOWE has presented of Southern slavery, she has adopted the rules which give to poetry its effective power. The commonplace relations of the subject are left out of view; all the quiet natural, every-day scenes are overlooked, or sedulously shut out; while the exaggerated, the startling, the extreme points, are disclosed under the intensest light which can be thrown upon them.

  The book is to the actual state of Slavery what poetry is to the real life of a people. Nothing is exhibited under the sober light of truth.

  The hero of the story is not a type of class but is a rare impersonation of the higher qualities which are found in a human being, under the most favorable circumstances which this world of ours ever affords; if, indeed, the sketch not be wholly ideal.

  No hero of antiquity—no man of modern times—viewed under the golden light which history, or even poetry, sheds upon him, surpasses Uncle Tom in all the characteristics which constitutes what we call the heroic, if he equals him. This man, with his African lineage, born and bred upon a plantation, without enjoying so far as we can see, advantages at all superior to those which are open to slaves about him, appears upon the canvas in colors which glow with unearthly beauty, and we turn from the ordinary and gross hero worship of the world to survey, with blended wonder and veneration, a dusky form, combining the noble fortitude of ULYSSES, with the patient dignity of SOCRATES; or rather, displaying the highest traits of Christian heroism, with which the race has been favored since its first great exemplars.

  Uncle Tom is a man of extraordinary intellectual powers, generous nature, quick sensibility, large and noble views of every subject; he discovers promptly and beautifully a lofty, spiritual philosophy, which throws upon all the surrounding objects of human life a golden haze, and which lights up the portals of the grave in the steady splendor of Immortal Hope.

  Patient under wrong, meek and forgiving, pleading with tones of earnest eloquence the cause of the oppressed, he displays a self-sacrificing and heroic spirit under appalling circumstances, almost without a parallel in the dark chronicles of human suffering.

  This is the slave: now let us look upon the picture of the master. Mr. Shelby is a gentleman somewhat embarrassed in his affairs, and is compelled to settle a claim which a trader—Haley—holds against him. The money not being at hand, Mr. Shelby decides to relieve himself from the pressure of debt by selling his very best servant to an unscrupulous trader—a servant more trusted than all the others, and in all things faithful. He sells him away from his wife, his children, his home, his all; sends him to a climate regarded as fatal to many, even of the black race, who are exposed to its burning son; and this, too, he does when he has other slaves about him who might be sold, but who could not bring quite so high a price as Uncle Tom. To heighten the indignation which the reader feels kindling within him at this revolting traffic, a child of extraordinary attraction is thrown in to complete the bargain. This child, brought up in the family of Mr. Shelby with as much tenderness as one of his own children—the only child of his mother, a woman of refinement and cultivation—is embraced in the bill of sale, delivered to Haley, and it is stipulated that he shall be borne away to any market, and sold to any bidder.

  Is Mr. Shelby a fair type of the slaveholders of the Southern States? Or is it not the exaggeration as great in his case, as it is in that of Uncle Tom? The colors which make up the picture, are not the colors of this world of ours; they are in the one instance borrowed from Heaven, and in the other from Hell. A man like Uncle Tom is a Christian, fully prepared to enter at once into the society of just men made perfect; a man like Mr. Shelby, exhibits a selfishness, which finds its real and intense concentration nowhere this side of "the infernal pit." The same exaggerated style is employed in delineating the character and person of Eliza, and of her husband, George. Eliza’s "rich, full, dark eye, with its long lashes," her hair falling in "ripples of silky black," her complexion giving "way on the cheek, to a perceptible flush, which deepened as she saw the gaze of the strange man fixed upon her in bold, and undisguised admiration," bespeak a sensibility and beauty altogether attractive; while her taste and refinement may be inferred from her dress, which "was of the neatest possible fit, and set off to advantage her finely-moulded shape; a delicately formed hand, and a trim foot and ankle," are also brought to view, so that the person presented to us possesses an indescribable charm.

  This engaging person is "married to a bright and talented young mulatto man," who was also a slave, and bore the name of George Harris.

  The talented young mulatto was employed in a bagging factory, and had actually invented a machine for cleaning hemp, which displayed as much genius as WHITNEY’s Cotton Gin. This, of course, greatly increased his value as a slave, but unfortunately it also increased his consideration; his master became fixed with jealousy at the increased consequence of his "chattel," and forthwith removed him to a plantation, subjected him to cruel treatment, refused the most advantageous offers for him, and actually compelled him to run away. Seen afterwards in a small country hotel, in the disguise of a gentleman, the fugitive slave, George, is described as "very tall, with a dark Spanish complexion, fine, expressive black eyes, and close curling hair, also of a glossy blackness. His well-formed aquiline nose, straight think lips, and the admirable contour of his finely-formed limbs, impressed the whole company with the idea of something uncommon."

  Such are some of the dramatis personae who figure in Mrs. STOWE’s book. Whatever can give a charm to the human form—or elevation to human character—is found in the slaves who are objects of our regard, and for whom the sympathies of the civilized world are invoked. Whatever can lessen our respects for a slaveholder is attributed to Mrs. Shelby,—whatever can rouse our detestation of the race of traders—in their most malignant depraved state is shown to us in the person of Haley. Even Mrs. Shelby and Eva, the beautiful, unearthly, angelic Eva, are exhibited in the dwellings of the South, to make their associates the more hateful, upon the principle that like Hamlet, we compare Hyperion with a satyr. The only really natural person in the book is Augustine St. Clare; he is natural. Many such men do we know; noble, generous, humane, and good men; indulgent to the last degree in the management of their slaves; comprehending the evils which belong to slavery, and at the same time comprehending equally the visionary and heartless school of self-complacent moralists, who baptise themselves philanthropists.

  It is quite clear that whatever may be the demerits of the slave system, they are not fairly exhibited in Mrs. STOWE’s Book; a book which we do not misconceive or undervalue.

  We have already said that it possesses extraordinary attractions. It has fixed in the eyes of the civilized world on the Slaveholding States. Its "still, sad music" has reached the ear of mankind. It is altogether impossible that it should pass away without working great results; indeed we trust that its results will be seen in all the future fortunes of the African race. It ought to be read by every Slaveholder; it is far more important that he should read it, than the Abolitionist of America, or of Europe, should find in its pages fresh fuel for his passions. All this we freely say. But we say something more than this; and it is—that the sympathy of the civilized world has been roused, not by an exhibition of the true relations between master and slave, but by a splendid picture;—an elaborate and successful performance, in which the imagination prevails to so high a degree, that the scene should have been laid in some Oriental region, rather than amidst the sober and commonplace realities of the Plantation States.

  Uncle Tom’s Cabin stands at the head of that entertaining class of books known as "Tales Founded on Facts."

WALPOLE.



Southern Slavery. A Glance at Uncle Tom's Cabin.
SECOND PAPER.

BY A SOUTHERNER.

  So far from being disposed to quarrel with Mrs. STOWE on account of her book, we are really pleased to see that it has attracted so much attention. We had thought that the commercial spirit was in the ascendant so decidedly, as to make it a very difficult talk to touch the heart of the great world, or to make it throb with generous impulses. In the progress of civilization, we have almost attained the state which entitles us to BURKE’s splendid and indignant description of Europe, viewed under the baleful light of the French revolution—"but the age of chivalry is gone. That of sophisters, economists and calculators, has succeeded."

  The commercial spirit, which estimates everything by market prices, is very powerful. But there is one beautiful and noble exception of the depth of that generous current which yet flows through the world: there is one fact which will vindicate our age from the reproach of utter selfishness. The tone of Lady FRANKLIN, tones of blended sadness and hope, imploring good and brave men to search the Polar seas for the unreturning ships which bore Sir JOHN and his companions into those unknown ice-regions, sent a thrill throughout the civilized world. Year after year sees generous and courageous men push the keels of their vessels far into those frozen solitudes; the light of hope scarcely sheds a gleam upon the icebergs which surround them, but they yet spread their sails in the midst of eternal Winter, and seek to find some trace of the long lost navigators. It is to be feared that we may borrow for Sir JOHN and his companions the mournful lines of GRAY’s Elegy in a Country Church-yard:

"For them no more the blazing hearth shall burn,
Nor busy housewife ply her evening care;
No children run to list their sire’s return,
Or climb his knees, the envied kiss to share."
  Still, the very search will do good; it sets at defiance the sophisters, economists and calculators of our day; and in the very midst of the busy and noisy shops, and great warehouses filled with the products of the world, heaped up by wealth, and in the market places where men trade, it proclaims the supreme authority of the affections, and sets up the law of love.

  The success of the sketches of "Life among the Lowly," satisfies us, too, that the world can be moved by a tale of wrong and oppression; and we will not complain of the world, or of Mrs. STOWE,—although we see that there is a misunderstanding on both sides; the world being in tears over a work of the imagination, and Mrs. STOWE glowing with the thought that she is accomplishing a great moral revolution.

  We have said that we think the book must produce great results, and we certainly hope so.

  Its aim is to exhibit the evils of Slavery; and the two great pictures which it presents are, the slave sold to a trader and placed under his unchecked and mercenary will, and the slave toiling for a harsh, avaricious and merciless master, upon a Southern plantation. Let us look at these pictures,—they deserve to be studied; and above all men, the people of the South should study them. For whatever is to be done for the slave, must be done by his master; the abolitionist can do nothing for him—his misguided efforts only retard the amelioration of the condition of the enslaved race, by making it necessary to observe a stricter police system in the plantation States, and by putting it out of the power of the enlightened and humane men in the South to undertake any modification of the system. We have seen the shadow actually go back upon the dial under a Southern sun. It is again advancing. Since the adjustment of the great controversy by the passage of the Compromise measures, a much better sentiment has been manifested in regard to the slave question, in the Southern States, than existed for some years previous to that time.

  Mrs. Stowe undertakes the expose the abuses of Slavery, and her first object is to show how the internal slave traffic works. She selects some incidents to illustrate this. In every case the same exaggerated style prevails; and every case appeals to our sensibilities in the most painful way. We are not in the least degree disposed to find fault with this; for no one can exceed us in that detestation of the Slave traffic which is so powerfully exhibited both at the North and the South. It is often attended with the most revolting circumstances. It is proper that its abuses should be exposed; and it is to be hoped that the vivid sketches of the results of this inhuman traffic which are found in Uncle Tom’s Cabin, will contribute a powerful momentum to Southern opinion in regard to it. That opinion is already advancing, and we hope to see it reach a point of such high and commanding power, as will enable it to control and shape Legislation, until a thorough reformation can be effected, and the true principles of Christian statesmanship find a place in the code of every Southern State. Slavery is one thing, the Slave trade is quite another thing. To regard the slave as a mere chattel, to overlook or treat with contempt his moral nature, to trifle with his sensibility or do violence to his affections, to regard him mainly as a being who is to be bought or sold whenever the state of the market will make the speculation pay, without any reference to his volition, without consulting his relations to his home, his wife, his children, is so utterly and eternally at war with the spirit of Christianity, that we look with indignation upon every such instance which meets the eye. Fetters and the slave-pen we loathe. Mrs. STOWE does not, however, we believe, paint from real life, when she represents Haly as seated at the table of Mr. Shelby, engaged in familiar conversation over the wine.

  It is quite certain that no such scene can be witnessed in any Southern State. Haly would be regarded not merely with distaste, but with aversion, and his presence would not be allowed to pollute the family group of any Southern gentleman.

  It is unjust in a high degree, to call upon the civilized world to see Haly seated at the table of Mr. Shelby, and then to observe him, as he stops at a neighboring smith-shop to adjust the fetters to the limbs of the faithful Uncle Tom, the early friend of Mr. Shelby, the trusted and confidential slave, who had never deceived him, and whose religious character was revered by his master.

  No one acquainted with Southern gentlemen, will fail to see that this picture is not true to nature; there is in it a fatal want of harmony. The sale of Uncle Tom to Haly is a voluntary one; it is true, he holds a claim against Mr. Shelby, but yet the sale is voluntary, and it is represented as that of a man of some kindness of heart, at least, and whose good breeding is not to be questioned,—a man who esteems himself a gentleman,—invites a wretch, like Haly, to sit at his table and take wine with him; and this gentleman consents, presently, to sell to the trader his most valued servant,—in truth, the friend of his youth—and a child reared in his own house; and this traffic is carried on without the intervention of the stern process of the law, but in a most amiable way. Now, if Mrs. STOWE wishes to represent that some modification should be made in the codes of the several Slaveholding States, a modification so great as to protect the sacred which bind alike the hearts of the white and the colored races, we say at once—we say, with all our Southern blood rushing with the rapidity and force of an ocean tide—throw the ample shield of the law between the slave and the detestable trader.

  One of the great evils of Slavery is, that changes sometimes come over the fortunes of the master, which affect as deeply the fortunes of the slave. Debt, that blighting curse which attends civilization, and which the Shepherd of Salisbury Plain dreaded next to sin, deprives the master of a valued and trusted friend, and the slave of a protector and a home. The Democratic principle has entered so largely into our political system, that all property is exposed to the process of law, and lands, houses, slaves, whatever we most value, is brought under the hammer, and sold to the highest bidder, if we are overtaken by the calamity of owing that which we cannot pay. In most of the States, imprisonment for debt is abolished, and it ought to be abolished everywhere. No man should be permitted to cast his fellow-man into prison, there to remain until he has paid the uttermost farthing.

  We venture to say, too, that we think the laws of the Slaveholding States ought to be so amended, as to prevent slaves from being sold under executions for debts. We believe that the day is not distant, when the benign spirit of that Christianity which is destined to restore the world to its pristine purity, will effect this change in our laws. Slaves will then be protected in those social relations which ought never to be broken up;—the sanctity of home, the indestructible marriage tie, the tender attachment which binds parent and child, the reciprocal confidence between master and slave,—all will be respected, and Slavery will lose some of those features which give to the whole system a most unhappy aspect. We might hope, too, to see the traffic in slaves still further restricted, by putting it out of the power of the master to separate those who are connected by ties which ought never to be broken.

  The true friends of the social system of the Slaveholding States, will undoubtedly, in good time, effect these changes in the laws which relate to Slavery.

  Already great modifications have been introduced into the laws of some of the Southern States. Take, for example, the State of Alabama. This noble State, now rapidly advancing, not only in wealth, but in all that constitutes true civilization, is leading the way in that work of reformation, which promises to make the system of Slavery, within its limits, a model of productive and cheerful labor.

  Its new code contains some excellent provisions in regard to the separation of slave families. No execution can be levied on a child under the age of ten years, without including the mother; or upon the mother, without including the child; and they must be sold together, if they belong to the same person, unless the owner will make, and deliver to the officer who has them in charge, an affidavit, that his interests will be materially prejudiced by selling the slaves together; but no levy or sale can be made, by which a child under five years of age shall be separated from its mother, under any circumstances.

  It is also provided, that in all sales of slaves under the decree of a Chancery Court, or under any deed of trust, or power of sale in a mortgage, the slaves must, if practicable, be sold in families.

  These humane provisions in a code of laws adopted in the most important Slaveholding State in the Union—a State which contributes millions of dollars annually to the exports of the country, produced by slave labor—afford the most cheering signs of the progress of the public sentiment; and it is not to be doubted that the benign influence of Christian principle will yet achieve a complete triumph over that dark and hideous selfishness, which has, in some instances, shocked the moral sense of mankind, by ignoring the claims of the African race to be considered as human beings, with human hearts beating within their dusky bosoms.

  There is yet another feature which is not to be overlooked in estimating the state of the slave question, as it stands out to-day before the civilized world. The crowded slave population in most of the Southern States, suggests to thoughtful minds the importance of protecting these States from a further increase of that population by importation. The introduction of slaves from abroad for sale, has more than once been prohibited by Legislative enactments in several of the slaveholding States, and it will in time become the settled policy of them all.

  This will, of course, effectually break up the internal slave trade; and it is the only mode in which it can be broken up. For we insist that this whole subject must be left to the undisturbed jurisdiction of the Slaveholding States; they comprehend it; they are profoundly interested in it, and they will deal with it in a spirit at once enlightened and philanthropic. To the eye of the calm observer of human events, as they are occurring in the United States, it is quite plain that a most favorable change is going on in the whole country—at the North and at the South—everywhere, in the manner of treating the questions respecting Slavery. The mercenary spirit is no longer ascendant; and while it would be too much to say that its power is altogether broken, it may be very safely said that it is more than ever heretofore restrained and modified by moral considerations. The whole traffic, we freely admit, from the day when the first slave ship turned its prow from the Coast of Africa, freighted with the unhappy beings destined to exile and servitude, to this day, when gangs of their doomed descendants, bought up like cattle and exposed in the shambles where lust and avarice may come to drive their bargains,—the whole traffic is revolting. It originated under the influence of

  "Mammon, the least erected spirit that fell from heaven,"

  and it still feels the impulse which he gave it; but the slave trade of the year of grace eighteen hundred and fifty-three is divested of much of its horror, because the blaze of noonday surrounds it, and its former abuses would no longer be tolerated. The chains, the fetters, and all the instruments of cruelty have disappeared. Such scenes as Mrs. STOWE describes: the putting irons on Uncle Tom, the sale of an infant from its mother’s arms, the cruel disregard of the entreaties of a mother, not to be separated from her daughter in the one instance, and her boy in the other; the whole Mississippi steamboat picture, the slave mart in New-Orleans, we do not believe are to be witnessed. They are powerful sketches, but we do not think them truthful. Yet we hope that they will result in good. Let the imagination have fair play in describing the slave trade; dip the pencil which traces the forms of the victims in the darkest colors; spread the canvas before the eyes of the whole world; bring down upon the traffic the thunders of human indignation, and you will yet not offend the sentiment of the Southern people. Scorn and loathing would nowhere in all the world look out from human countenances more witheringly upon such men as Haly, Tom Loker and Marks, than in the Southern States of the Union. Nor would a prompt sympathy be excited in behalf of the slave suffering from cruel treatment, from hunger, disease or nakedness, or from the disruption of natural ties, anywhere so soon as under the skies where the cotton-plant grows, and where the songs of cheerful labor greet the ear of the traveler, as he pursues his journey amid the almost tropical verdure of Southern plantations.

WALPOLE.



Southern Slavery. A Glance at Uncle Tom's Cabin.
THIRD PAPER.

BY A SOUTHERNER.

  We have said that Slavery is one thing, and that the Slave-trade is quite another thing. In the popular mind they are confounded; and the thunderbolts which are hurled by indignant philanthropists against the system of domestic servitude which prevails at the South, are provoked by the atrocities of the Slave trade, in almost every instance. Of that traffic,—a traffic upon which the whole civilized world frowns, when its victims are torn from Africa, subjected to the horrors of the middle passage, and sold to hopeless servitude; but which, in a much milder form, is still carried on in this country,—we have, in our second paper, freely expressed our views.

  Mrs. STOWE is too intelligent to blend the odious features of the Slave-trade with Slavery as it exists in its regular and well-ordered state; but as her book is intended to turn the indignation of the whole world against the social system of the Southern States, she presents a series of pictures, some of them exhibiting atrocities of a traffic which too often involves not only the physical comforts of its victims, but makes shipwreck of their affections, their hopes, and all that they hold dear; while others bring to our view the abuses of Slavery itself. Uncle Tom sold to Haley, put in irons, borne away from his happy cabin; Eliza flying with her boy, snatched from the very hands of the trader; the heart-broken mother plunging from the boat, that she might bury her griefs beneath the waters of the Ohio, when her infant had been torn from her arms;—these, and other instances, are intended to illustrate the horrors of the Slave trade. It is described as a story "every day told—of heart-strings rent and broken—the weak broken and torn, for the profit and convenience of the strong!"

  The scenes brought to view in New-Orleans,—Prue, whose master, in her own language, "counts my money and my tickets when I gets home, to see if I’s got the change; and if I ha’nt, they half kill me;" Topsy, whose cruel treatment had well-nigh destroyed the moral sense within her;—these cases, together with the scenes sketched on Legree’s plantation, where Sambo and Quimbo executed the infernal tyranny of a fiendish master, without a peer in all the earth where the light of God’s day shines, and with scarcely an equal in that dismal region where the lost spirits display their worst passions—these scenes are offered as proper illustrations of the evils of Slavery. The whole dark and terrible picture painted at Legree’s plantation, is the most hideous and revolting which we have ever looked upon. It would, by contrast, actually light up the darkest scene to be found in VIRGIL’s description of the infernal regions, if placed side by side with it; and it is not surpassed in horrors by any of the dread scenery of DANTE’S Hell.

  The Hungry, naked, despairing troop of slaves,—pressed from the earliest glimmer of morning up to the darkness of descending night—tasked beyond their strength,—feeble women lashed by athletic men, because they failed to pick the allotted weight of cotton,—no home to return to in the evening but a wretched, unlighted, filthy hovel,—the necessity of grinding the corn which was to make their small, course allowance of bread after the day’s labor,—no words of kindness or encouragement to-day,—no faintest light of hope touching to-morrow’s dawn with the promise of better things,—the present dark,—the future rayless,—the only sounds heard the weary grinding of the mill, the voice of fault-finding and coarse abuse, the smiting of the lash as it fell pitilessly upon human flesh;—what is there here, in a scene like this, short of hell?

  But Mrs. STOWE describes all this as a scene to be looked upon in the State of Louisiana! This she offers to the world as her picture of Slavery!

  As to the Slave-trade carried on within our own country, we may be allowed to say, after the frank expression of our views in regard to it, that it is to be distinguished from the foreign Slave-trade in this: it does not add to the number of slaves; it changes the field of labor, but it does not increase the number of the enslaved. That defence it is at least entitled to. It is sometimes replied to this statement, that the number of slaves is actually increased, because the internal Slave-trade encourages the breeding of slaves. This argument has actually been urged in the Congress of the United States. A more unfortunate one for the opponents of Slavery could hardly be started; for it concedes that the Slave-trade actually adds to the physical comforts of the African race, and that they, as a consequence of it, give the highest proof which a people can give, of being well provided for, by a rapid increase in the population.

  But we will not recur to that topic. If Mrs. STOWE can succeed by the geographic descriptions with which her book abounds, in discouraging the Slave-trade—foreign or domestic,—so far from complaining, we shall thank her for it.

  It is our purpose in this paper, to say something of Slavery as it actually exists in the Southern States. In the fullest candor we shall write of it. Truthfully we shall write of it; and we shall utter no complaints against the gifted lady who as arraigned us before the civilized world, nor against any other human being, living or dead.

  It is quite a common mode of repelling attacks upon the system of domestic servitude in the South, to attack the forms of labor which exist elsewhere. But we shall not for a moment travel in that direction; it is not our purpose to carry the war into the enemy’s country; but we desire to dissipate, by the touch of an Ithuriel spear, if we can; or by the touch of a spear still more potential than his—that of truth—the mists which envelop the slave plantations of the South. By taunting England with her system of pauper-labor; a system which employs the abilities of her best Statesmen, in debates as to the number of hours her hard-tasked operatives shall work between the dawn of day and midnight; by describing the sad picture of Ireland in its defected and wretched servitude; or by calling upon the Northern States to feed and to clothe their poor, and especially the poor Slave escaped from his master and his bondage, before entering upon a crusade against us, we should only inflame them still more against us; and we should indirectly confess that our won system of labor was too little capable of defence or explanation, to encourage us to undertake the task. The physical comforts of our slave population we shall not compare with the physical want and suffering of the laboring classes at the North, in England, or elsewhere. There shall be no contest of that kind. We bear in mind the terrible denunciation of Dr. CHANNING against that style of argument. "In reply" he says, "to these, and other representations of the wrongs and evils of this institution, we are told that the slaves are well fed, well clothed—at least better than the peasantry and the operatives in many other countries; and this is gravely adduced as a vindication of Slavery. A man capable of offering it ought, if any one ought, to be reduced to bondage. A man who thinks food and raiment a compensation for liberty—who would counsel men to sell themselves, to become property, to give up all rights and power over themselves, for a daily mess of pottage, however savory, is a slave in heart. He has lost the spirit of a man, and would be less wronged than other men if a slave’s collar were welded around his neck." It must be observed, however, that while we do not adduce the physical well-being of the slave as a vindication of Slavery as an original institution, it affords a very proper reply to those who dwell upon its abuses; to those who, like Mrs. STOWE, describe a state of wretched over-working and scanty feeding—a state which the plantation of Legree exhibited—and offer it to the world as a picture of Southern Slavery. The comforts which the slave enjoys are conceded by Dr. CHANNING’s argument; and it is well that he does concede so much, for its makes his moral appeal on behalf of liberty far more powerful. After all, the actual physical comforts of a people are by no means to be overlooked or despised; and especially are they not to be overlooked in a paper which discusses Uncle Tom’s Cabin. That book seeks to expose the abuses of Slavery; it does not discuss the question of Slavery as an institution, but it appeals to the civilized world against it, because of its wrongs, its cruelty, its oppression.

  Let us here say at once, that we do not belong to that school of economists, sophists and calculators, who advocate Slavery for its own sake. We recognize it as a fact—we defend it as an institution already deeply implanted in the social system of the South,—it is a full grown tree, and its roots have struck deep into our soil. If, like PLATO, we should sit down to sketch an ideal Republic, we do not think that Slavery would form any part of it; all the elements should represent the great idea of Freedom. But yet it is true—history proves it to be true—that Slavery is consistent with the highest, the noblest, the freest, and the happiest civilization which the world has so far exhibited.

  Athens, "the eye of Greece," upon whose sea and upon whose land the light of freedom yet kindles with undying lustre—contained slaves.

  Nowhere in all the world does the spirit of Liberty rise higher; nowhere in all the world is it readier for sacrifices, than at the South. The statesmen of the South are preeminent for their prompt and steady allegiance to constitutional liberty.

  But, with this before our eyes, we shall not undertake any vindication of Slavery in the abstract, nor do we believe if it were a new question, that there would now be any difference of opinion in regard to it anywhere in the civilized world. If we walked with PLATO to-day, and discoursed with him upon the elements which should enter into his Republic, we do not suppose that, on the one side or the other, it would be suggested that Slavery was essential to its harmony, its happiness, or its glory. But in this world, where the whole race of man encounters the stern necessities of life; where the strong and the weak are thrown together upon the ever-heaving sea of human fortunes; where all of us have burdens to bear and tasks to perform; where the ideal must, at every step, be sacrificed to the real, it is very easy to defend Slavery, and to make it appear plainly, that slave labor is the least oppressive of any form of labor to be found in any country of all the earth.

  The startling feature in Slavery—that which shocks so many who look upon it—is, that it subjects one human being to the absolute control of another human being; that it confers upon one man the power to dispose of the fortunes of another man; to say what he shall eat, and what he shall drink; what he shall wear; where he shall labor, and when; under what sun he shall toil; who shall surround him as associates, or whether he shall have any associates; whom he shall marry, or not marry; the power to scourge the wife of the slave before his eyes; to subject his children to the lash, without giving him, the husband and the father, the right to complain or expostulate; to take the fruit of his hard toil, when harvest-time comes, and appropriate it to the gratification of the master’s lusts; to insult him day after day; to task his powers in youth, in manhood, and in old age; to deny him the privilege of worshipping God in public, and with his fellows; and to seal up from his eyes the very Bible which cheers the poor and guides wandering and weary feet to heaven. It is this dread picture of colossal power which makes the soul recoil, and which appeals so powerfully to the depths of human hearts against the Slave System. But yet, this is merely ideal; this is the hideous form which Slavery wears to those who do not understand domestic servitude as it exists in the Southern States. Like the shadows which surrounded the couch of Richard, they strike more terror to the soul than the real, the actual, the every-day scenes which are beheld in broad daylight.

  Wherever the rich and the poor are found, there is room for wrong, cruelty and oppression. Every form of servitude exposes weak to the heavy hand of the strong. Poverty, like STERNE’s slavery, "is a bitter draught, and though thousands have, in all ages, been made to drink of it, it is none the less bitter." An idealist, who should undertake to depict the evils of modern civilization, would describe the suffering of the poor—their hunger—their nakedness—their miserable abodes—the want of comforts when prostrated by disease—the necessity of separation between parent and child; or we might have presented to us a single victim, a poor needle-woman, taking the many weary stitches which could be numbered between early dawn and the late hours of the night, and earning them, with all this exhausting toil, a few cents only—hardly sufficient to buy bread for her neglected, pale children—such pictures would he paint; and if he should paint with Mrs. STOWE’s skill, he would make society appear very odious. Another COWPER, as he looked upon the heart-sickening sketch, might exclaim: "Oh, for a lodge in some vast wilderness."

  It is insisted, however, that Slavery is exposed to great abuses; that it brings the operative under the unchecked authority of a master, whose interest it becomes to task his strength to the last point; and in whose view all the tender and ennobling qualities, which belong to our nature, are despised. The slave is protected by law; strict penal statues restrain the master in the administration of his government; and what is more powerful even than law—public opinion—restrains the authority of the slave-owner, and like Omnipotence it says, to the surges of human passions, "There are appointed bounds, which cannot be passed." We venture to say, from an extended observation of the operatives of Europe and of our own country, that the slaves of the Southern States are, to-day, the happiest laboring class to be found in the whole world. Of course we compare them with the corresponding class of laborers, as they exist elsewhere.

  There is, too, a growing sentiment at the South in favor of granting all the ameliorations to the state of the slave, which his condition will bear.

  Is this the impression which Uncle Tom’s Cabin will make upon the world? Turn for a moment to the history of Prue, the old woman who went out to take the rusks to her master’s customers. "A few days after, another woman came in old Prue’s place, to bring the rusks; Miss Ophelia was in the kitchen.

  "Lor! said Dina, "what’s got Prue?"

  "Prue isn’t coming any more," said the woman mysteriously. "Why not?" said Dinah, "she an’t dead, is she?" "We doesn’t exactly know. She’s down cellar," said the woman, glancing at Miss Ophelia. After Miss Ophelia had taken the rusks, Dinah followed the woman to the door. "What has got Prue, anyhow?" she said. The woman seemed desirous, yet reluctant, to speak, and answered in a low, mysterious tone.

  "Well, you musn’t tell nobody. Prue, she got drunk agin—and they had her down cellar,—and there they left her all day—and I hearn ‘em saying that the flies had got to her—and she’s dead."

  Dinah lifted up her hands, and turning, saw close by her side the spirit-like form of Evangeline, her large, mystic eyes dilated with the horror, and every drop of blood driven from her lips and cheeks.

  This is the account which Mrs. STOWE gives of the end of old Prue; and the atrocious scene is described as having occurred in the city of New-Orleans.

  We are favored with a defence of the affair by Augustine St. Clare, which is artfully put into his lips. Miss Ophelia bursts into the room, exclaiming, "An abominable business,—perfectly horrible!"

  St. Clare having been informed by Miss Ophelia, that old Prue had been whipped to death, cooly replies that he "thought it would come to that, some time." He then goes on to say—"It's commonly supposed that the property interest is a sufficient guard in these cases. If people choose to ruin their own possessions, I don’t know what’s to be done." Another appeal being made by Miss Ophelia, he adds, "My dear cousin, I didn’t do it, and I can’t help it; I would if I could. If low-minded, brutal people will act like themselves, what am I to do? They have absolute control; they are irresponsible despots. There would be no law that amounts to anything, practically, for such a case. The best we can do is to shut our eyes and ears, and let it alone. It’s the only resource left us."

  Now there is a double wrong in this description of an outrageous murder, and in the explanation which St. Clare makes of it. To represent such scenes as the death of old Prue as an ordinary occurrence in the Southern States, is a monstrous and unpardonable statement.

  If this be true, we might expect to find some sculptor ambitious of rivaling PHIDIAS, who would order one of his slaves to be put to death before his eyes, that he might trace upon the marble the perfect lines which mark the agonies of expiring nature. Indeed, a mere amateur might verify his criticism of a picture as the Sultan did, who found fault with a painting representing a human head stricken off, because the artist did not make the skin contract sufficiently from the neck; and to establish the accuracy of his artistic taste, commanded one of his slaves to be brought into the studio, and had him forthwith decapitated.

  So that, at all events, we are likely to excel in the arts.

  Take, too, the terrible description of Uncle Tom’s death—expiring beneath the lash—the inhuman wretch Legree, altogether the most detestable sketch which genius has ever furnished, standing by and directing every blow. Take this description as an illustration of the state of Slavery at the South, and who does not see that it is intended to inform the world, that there the power of the master over the slave is unlimited?

  Could a wretch like Legree exist in Louisiana? Would not atrocities such as those which Mrs. STOWE attribute to him, rouse men to hunt him down like a wild beats, and exterminate him, and the whole tribe of fiends like him, even if there were no law to punish such monstrous outrages?

  That there are abuses of the institution of Slavery, it is idle to deny. That slaves are sometimes overworked, sometimes badly fed and clothed, sometimes cruelly scourged, is but too true. We profoundly lament that it is true. The condition of the slave appeals to all that is generous in man’s nature. He can look out upon the world only as his master permits him to see it; he can scarcely look to God, except by the light which master permits him to enjoy. His physical comforts—the happiness of his moral nature—all that is within and all that is without him, may be made either brighter or darker, by the influence of his master. To a dependent being like this, a noble nature is ready to extend whatever of protection or of kindness his circumstances may demand. But everywhere, in all the wide world, there are those who will crush the weak, and despise the cry of the poor and needy. Therefore it is, that in the Southern States, the laws protect alike the master and the slave; and they elevate the slave above "a chattel," for they recognize his moral nature, while they shield him from the brutal passions of an enraged tyrant. In Alabama, to which State we have already referred, the laws which protect the slave are wisely and humanely conceived, and we believe that they are faithfully executed.

  There is one sketch at least amongst those which we find in "Life Among the Lowly," which is a full of blended humor and pathos, which is true and life-like, and which will, we do not doubt, really do good. Of course we refer to Topsy. She is, as St. Clare says, "rather a funny specimen in the Jim Crow line." Quick, subtle, mischievous, without moral training, knowing nothing of her origin or her destiny, brought up to obey only when under the eye of her owner, taught by blows only; she is a type of that degraded class of slaves who grow up under the tender mercies of those who despise the negro race, and who do not recognize their claim to be regarded as immortal.

  Such is Topsy; she "spects she grow’d," and she freely says, "I’s mighty wicked, any how." Yet the soul of this poor, uninstructed, perverted creature, was touched and awakened by the angelic nature of the gentle, loving Eva. The finest passage in the whole book follows a description of the beautiful scene where Eva attempts to recover Topsy from her hardness by words of kindness, and when, for the first time, a ray of heavenly love penetrates the darkness of her heathen soul. St. Clare and Ophelia were standing apart, looking on; and observing the effect of Eva’s kindness on Topsy, St. Clare said:

  "It puts me in the mind of mother. It is true, what she told me. If we want to give sight to the blind, we must be willing to do as Christ did—call them to us, and put our hands on them."

  The picture is a beautiful one; the lesson which it teaches is full of the profoundest wisdom; and we may all learn that, in governing human beings, we must recognize their moral nature, and introduce into our system the law of kindness.

WALPOLE.



Southern Slavery. A Glance at Uncle Tom's Cabin.
FOURTH PAPER.

BY A SOUTHERNER

  Mrs. STOWE’s book is not to be regarded as a literary performance. It unquestionably possesses extraordinary attractions in that way, but it was intended to accomplish much more than to create a sensation in literary circles, or earn increased reputation for the writer, who was already a celebrite; it was written with a view to political results. MONTESQUIEU’s great work was not written with a more decided political aim than Mrs. STOWE’s book; and we are by no means sure that the form which she has adopted in giving her views of Slavery through the pages of "Life among the Lowly," will not prove to be quite as effective as it could have been if the graver and more ambitious style of the "Spirit of Laws" had been imitated.

  There is profound political wisdom in the remark, "Let me write the ballads of a people and I care not who makes their laws;" ballads take hold of the imagination, and move the heart, and thus control the life, while laws are often disregarded.

  At some periods, when the popular mind is a certain state of excitement, the Marseilles Hymn, sung in the streets of Paris, would revolutionize France. At this very moment it is well understood that CHARLES DICKENS is writing against the Chancery system of England; and instead of preparing a grave essay, he produces the entertaining pages of Bleak House. It is in this philosophical spirit that Mrs. STOWE’s book is conceived. How many pages of grave argument would it require to produce the same detestation of the Slave-trade within the United States as has been excited by the scenes depicted in Uncle Tom’s Cabin?

  Does not the whole world, unacquainted with the actual condition of the slave in the Southern States, glow with indignation at the mere thought of a cotton plantation, because the picture of Legree’s place is accepted as at least a sketch of the real horrors of that system of labor, tinged, it may be supposed, somewhat with the ideal?

  Let the exaggerated description of the Slave-trade pass. We feel no inclination to scrutinize it. But we do desire that the actual condition of Slavery as it exists to-day in the Southern States, shall be somewhat better comprehended than it can be if Mrs. STOWE’s representation are permitted to pass without examination. Uncle Tom cruelly murdered, and old Prue expiring under inhuman treatment, must not be exhibited to the world as pictures illustrative of the real state of domestic servitude among us, without at least a remark as to the manner in which they are made up.

  All works of art should be viewed under a strong light, if we wish to see how the artistic effect is produced.

  A representation of Slavery as it exists at the South, might be given to the world so as to produce the happiest effect both at home and abroad; but the exaggerated, and we may say impassioned style which prevails in Mrs. STOWE’s sketches, will, we fear, give rise to misconceptions outside of our own limits; and create so much resentment among us as to hinder the good influence which a candid appeal, made by a woman of so much genius, would exert. With all its faults, we trust that the book will accomplish great good. Its extravagant descriptions of the abuses of Slavery will awaken inquiry at home as to their fidelity; and will give such an impulse to public sentiment in the Southern States, that even more stringent and potential laws than those already in existence, will be adopted for the protection of the slave.

  In most of the States—we believe we may say in all of them—these laws are already very sound and effective. In some of them it is already provided that a white man, if he be not the owner, or some one having some official authority, cannot strike a slave without exposing himself to an indictment under the penal laws.

  Masters protect their slaves, and they are prompt to redress any wrong committed upon them by others.

  There is, too, a family feeling which grows up between the master and his slaves, which begets a mutual confidence,—the master looks after the physical comforts of the slave—his happiness in his home, and his well-being in every way; while the slave feels himself identified with the fortunes of his owner, rejoices in his prosperity, deplores his misfortunes, and is proud of his success, and jealous of his reputation.

  The slave feels habitually that all about him belongs to him in common with his owner; and he actually uses the word "our" in a perfectly natural way, when speaking of any of the property which is in the possession of the family.

  Few more pleasing spectacles can be witnessed, than a group of negroes enjoying a holiday on some plantation; the men dressed in their best clothes, the women with their gay head-shawls, the children rolling on the luxuriant grass; while songs, laughter, and the music of some rude instrument heighten the gayety of the scene.

  Upon almost every plantation every slave enjoys the privilege of having his own family home—a cabin somewhat after the Uncle Tom’s fashion, around which he cultivates his own green patch, and rears his poultry.

  It is quite clear, then, that while the authority of the master over the slave is very great—as great as any authority confided to one human being over another ought ever to be—yet the slave is protected by laws, by public opinion, by the interest of the owner in his well-being, and by a powerful family feeling, which springs up between persons holding this relation to each other. Such is Slavery, as it is to be seen any day in the Southern States.

  While the American troops were engaged in carrying on the late war with Mexico, a young gentleman took with him, to that part of the country which was occupied by our forces, a supply of articles suited to the wants of the people in their belligerent state, and engaged in trade. He was accompanied by a body servant.

  He fell victim to the climate, and, during his illness, he was nursed with unremitting attention by his faithful and attached slave.

  This man, after the death of his master, brought his remains back to his family, saw them interred in the family burying ground, and entered as naturally once more into a state of servitude, as a wandering child would have returned to the sheltering protection of the paternal roof. Surely, a system which produces a powerful attachment of this kind, on the part of the slave to his master, cannot be regarded as a system of unmixed evil. It is plain that in some instances, at least—and we think not rare ones—the great example to which Mrs. STOWE has so beautifully pointed as, has been followed—the slaveholder has called to him the blind ones committed to his care, and has laid hands on them, and has taught them to regard him as their benefactor.

  There is a great moral question that lies underneath all this actual working of the system of Slavery in the Southern States. The whole civilized world presses the question upon us: Is it right to hold human beings in bondage? All over the Northern States, all over the British Empire, all over the Continent of Europe, this is regarded as a settled question. The whole world has decided the question against us.

  The opinion of mankind upon this subject seems to be as fixed as the Eternal Hills; and the voice of mankind uttering its denunciations against the system, roused as it sometimes is, under such appeals as the book which we are now reviewing makes to the heart of mankind, is like the roar of the ocean’s surge against some rocky coast which defies its power. This is the question which Mrs. STOWE sometimes brings up in Uncle Tom’s Cabin; and in nothing does she display such a want of generosity—we might even say such a want of fairness—as in the discussions which she gives us in regard to this topic.

  With extraordinary tact, she makes Miss Ophelia press this moral question upon Augustine St. Clare, who undertakes to state the case with great fairness, and who is represented as offering the best vindication of Slavery which an amiable and intelligent gentleman can make. Miss Ophelia takes the affair of Prue’s death very much to heart; and resolves to draw St. Clare out upon the whole subject. Taking her seat, she pulled out her knitting-work, and sat there with grim indignation. She knit and knit, but while she mused the fire burned; at last she broke out:

  "I tell you, Augustine, I can’t get over these things so, if you can. It’s a perfect abomination for you to defend such a system—that’s my mind!"

  "What now?" said St. Clare, looking up. "At it again, hey?"

  "I say it’s perfectly abominable for you to defend such a system!" said Miss Ophelia, with increasing warmth.

  "I defend it, my dear lady! Who ever said I did defend it?" said St. Clare.

  "Of course you defend it—you all do—all you Southerners. What do you have slaves for, if you don’t?"

  "Are you such a sweet innocent as to suppose nobody in this world ever does what they don’t think is right? Don’t you, or did’nt you ever do anything that you did not think quite right?"

  "If I do, I repent of it, I hope," said Miss Ophelia, rattling her needles with energy.

  "So do I," said St. Clare, peeling his orange; "I’m repenting of it all the time."

  "Didn’t you ever keep on doing wrong, after you’d repented, my good cousin?"

  "Well, only when I’ve been very much tempted," said Miss Ophelia.

  "Well, I’m very much tempted," said St. Clare, "that’s just my difficulty."

  "But I always resolve I won’t, and I try to break off."

  "Well, I have been resolving I won’t off and on these ten years," said St. Clare; "but I haven’t, somehow, got clear. Have you got clear of all your sins, cousin?"

  If the discussion had been limited to this playful parrying on the part of St. Clare of the troublesome questions put by Miss Ophelia, we could not have complained of it. But we presently find St. Clare throws off his playfulness, and takes up the question seriously. He undertakes to discuss the whole moral ground upon which the institution of Slavery rests. Every one sees that the positions assumed by St. Clare are utterly untenable; and if this system of domestic servitude in the Southern States was not defended by more powerful barriers than those which he shows up, it would give way in a single day before the assaults of its enemies. Miss Ophelia plies her knitting-needle and her arguments with equal activity, and reproaches Augustine with being a sad rattle-brain, because he dodges the question; but he promises for once to be serious, and calls for a basket of oranges, that he may be stayed with flagons and comforted with apples in making the effort.

  "The short of the matter is, cousin," said he, his handsome face suddenly settling into an earnest and serious expression, "on this abstract question of Slavery there can, as I think, be but one opinion. Planters who have money to make by it, clergymen who have planters to please, politicians who want to rule by it, may warp and bend language and ethics to a degree that shall astonish the world at their ingenuity; they can press nature and the Bible, and nobody knows what else, into the service; but, after all, neither they nor the world believe in it one particle more. It comes from the devil, that’s the short of it; and to my mind, it’s a pretty respectable specimen of what he can do in his own line."

  Miss Ophelia stopped her knitting, and looked surprised; and St. Clare, apparently enjoying her astonishment, went on:

  "You seem to wonder, but if you will get me fairly at it, I’ll make a clean breast of it. This cursed business, accursed of God and man, what is it? Why, because my brother Quashy is weak, and ignorant, and I am intelligent and strong,—because I know how and can do it,—therefore I may steal all he has, keep it, and give him only so much and such as suits my fancy. Whatever is too hard, too dirty, too disagreeable for me, I may set Quashy to doing. Because I don’t like work, Quashy shall work. Because the sun burns me, Quashy shall stay in the sun. Quashy shall earn the money, and I will spend it. Quashy shall lie down in every puddle, that I may walk over dry shod. Quashy shall do my will, and not his, all the days of his mortal life, and have such change of getting to heaven at last as I find convenient. This I take to be about what Slavery is; I defy any one on earth to read our Slave code, as it stands in our law-books, and make anything else of it. Talk of the abuses of Slavery? Humbug! The thing itself is the essence of all abuse! And the only reason why the land don’t sink under it like Sodom and Gomorrah, is because it is used in a way infinitely better than it is. For pity’s sake, for shame’s sake, because we are men born of women, and not savage beasts, many of us do not, and dare not,—we would scorn to use the full power which our savage laws put into our hands. And he who goes the furthest and does the worst, only uses within limits the power that the law gives him."

  We have quoted this entire passage, because we did not wish to mutilate the argument which Mrs. STOWE has been pleased to put into the lips of the slaveholder; and because we were unwilling to undertake the state of the argument in any language but her own. It must be borne in mind that this statement of the question of Slavery in its moral aspect, comes from a slaveholder; and in all fairness it is to be supposed that Mrs. STOWE has prepared the very best defence of the system which she could construct for it. To suppose that she has done otherwise, would be to make her disingenuous to the last degree.

  Now, we do not hesitate to say that this scathing denunciation from the lips of St. Clare, of the principle upon which slave property is held, may be applied with equal force to the principle upon which any description of property is held, in any part of the civilized world.

  Upon what does the exclusive right to property depend, if it be not that another is "weak and ignorant, and I am intelligent and strong, that I know how and can do it;" and therefore I may take from the weak man his earnings? Who does not see that the principle set up here would overturn the whole fabric of society? Who toils in the sun? Who exposes himself to the Winter’s cold? Who submits to the coarsest and meanest drudgery? Who drives the coach of the millionaire and sits upon the box through the long hours of the drifting snow-storm, while his master, in well-warmed and brilliantly-lighted apartments, sits at a table spread with the most costly luxuries which wealth can supply?

  Who sweeps the crossings of filthy streets that dainty feet may pass over dry shod? Who! who does all this but the ignorant and weak man, condemned by the laws to a state of servitude, more cheerless than that of the slave; with less to make it tolerable at present, and with nothing to gild it with the hope of an old age of comfort? The argument that would prostrate Slavery—we mean the fact of Slavery as it exists to-day in the Southern States, would overthrow the whole social system all over the world, and abolish the distinctions between the rich and the poor, and reduce all the ranks of human life to a dead level, under a cry more appalling even than the ideal words of French Republicanism, in their most unlicensed sense—Liberte, Fraternite, Egalite! The whole fabric of society, viewed in its most fortunate circumstances, exhibits great inequalities. The physical world does not present to us a more varied picture of hill and dale, and mountain and valley, than the moral world exhibits in the condition of mankind.

  If we should stand upon some high peak of a mountain overlooking a great city, the eye would take in the dwellings of the rich, the habitations of the poor, the gorgeous bazaars, the mean shops, and the countless number of buildings in which men toil through the weary hours of long Summer days; and if we should permit ourselves to inquire why the condition of the crowded population at our feet was so infinitely diversified, to what should we attribute all this inequality?

  What name should we give to that invisible but resistless power which fixed every one of these beings in his happier or darker state? We should call it law—the law of society—the law of civilization, which secures to the strong and the intelligent incalculable advantages over the weak and the ignorant; which lavishes upon the rich all the gifts of fortune, and compels the poor, hungry, and almost naked laborer to survey through a pane of glass every thing which would supply his wants, but sends him on his weary way to a half-starved family without bearing in his hand a single loaf of bread for the evening meal.

  To very many of those who undertake to depict the toils of Southern Slavery, we might say, in the words of JOHN RANDOLPH, "The Greeks are at your doors."

  All over the world there must be labor, and there is too often suffering; but, instead of attempting to overthrow the fabric of society, we must content ourselves with reforming its abuses, with ameliorating the condition of those upon whom its laws press too hardly; and we must seek to give full power and effect to the great law of love, as it came from the lips of the Great Teacher.

  The present race are not responsible for the existence of Slavery, and to represent them as avowing the sentiments attributed to St. Clare, is to do them a stupendous wrong. With the question of Slavery in the abstract, they do not undertake to deal; nor can they be expected to engage in the discussion of the speculative, moral proposition, while they are employing themselves in the management of a great fact.

  In the order of Providence,—a Providence whose purposes and movements are infinitely beyond the range of human vision,—a portion of the African race torn from their native land, and from a state of the grosses and most debasing barbarism, have been brought to our shores, placed under our control, and brought under the influence of the highest civilization which the world exhibits.

  We are responsible for a just and humane administration of the great authority which we find in our hands. Beyond this we cannot be held responsible.

  We rest upon the great fact that Slavery, as an institution, exists in our midst. What are we to do? If, under the influence of a rash and speculative sentiment, we should, tomorrow, set these people free, the whole world would presently pronounce it to be not only the wildest, but the most unhappy experiment ever made in the fortunes of our race. We must confide this great question to that Providence, under whose inscrutable, but ever-wise and good, administration it came into existence.

  We do not doubt that the grandest and most beneficent results will grow of it.

  In the colony already planted upon the African coast, and which has been so far fostered and kept alive by that Providence which does not allow the smoking wick to die out we may read the promise of a future full of splendor and of happiness. In the meanwhile the whole civilized world should acquiesce in the existence of Slavery. The solution of the great problem should be confided to the people of the Southern States. In our own country, especially, the jurisdiction of the Southern people over the subject should be left undisturbed. Whether we regard the bearing of history upon this institution, or the provisions of the Constitution respecting it, or the danger which attends any attempt to modify its character; it must be admitted by every candid man within the limits of the Republic, in whatever latitude he may reside, that the whole question should be left to the people of the Slaveholding States. In the Northern States Slavery disappeared some time since; but it did not give way before the force of any moral consideration,—it yielded to the pressure of an acknowledged principle in Political Economy.

  The investment did not pay, and therefore it was given up.

  The institution, although not named in the Constitution, was recognized by it. It was not until the Convention which framed the Constitution consented to the Ninth Section of the First Article, that the Southern members agreed to give to Congress the power "to regulate commerce," by the vote of a mere majority.

  The object of the stipulation in regard to the "importation of such persons as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit," was distinctly understood, and it was an element which entered into the Compromises matured on that memorable occasion, after so many days of anxious and patriotic deliberation.

  The famous provision in regard to the apportionment of representative, and direct taxes, which had reference to the whole number of free persons, and also to "three-fifths of all other persons," is full of instruction.

  Surely, stipulations that entered into the very structure of the Government ought to be respected.

  If the Southern people have the right to hold their property, it is their privilege to hold it without molestation.

  To question their right, or disturb their possession, is not so flagrant an outrage, but it is as clear a breach of good faith, as if the property were wrested out of their hands.

  We are not insensible to the odium which attaches to the Fugitive Slave Law; and whatever political writers, or moral writers, could do to make it still more odious, has been most diligently done.

  Among these writers, Mrs. STOWE holds a preeminent position. The escape of Eliza with her boy from the hot pursuit of Haley,—her desperate leap over the turbid current which rolled between her and the land of freedom,—her struggle up the bank with bleeding feet,—this whole scene is described by Mrs. STOWE with all the nervous power which she could command; and it must be admitted that the description rivals, in graphic and thrilling interest, any which we remember to have met with in works of fiction. It may be placed by the side of another description of a widely different scene; we mean that given by Sir WALTER SCOTT, in Ivanhoe, where Rebecca, looking from Front de Boeuf’s castle, describes to the wounded captive the terrible fortunes which attend the besieging forces. Nor can we withhold our sympathy from the wife of Senator Bird, who speaks from the depths of her heart in combating the constitutional argument of her husband, who at last consents, under the generous impulses of a very benevolent nature, to forget his duty as a citizen, and to aid in Eliza’s escape. But who does not see that this is merely a highly-colored picture, and that ten thousand scenes in the every-day life of the poor might be fairly placed alongside of it? It does not touch the principle of the question for a moment.

  As to the other scenes described by Mrs. STOWE,—the escape of the fugitives,—the combat among the rocks,—the Quaker settlement, where the gift of a seed-cake seems to be the solace for a wounded heart,—the family group at Amherstberg,—we confess that we feel no sympathy kindling within us as we read the account of them. They are all too artificial.

  Quite as vivid a description, of a scene quite as thrilling, might be given to us if the principal person in it, instead of being a slave, should be an apprenticed boy, flying from a cruel master.

  Pointing to his stripes, and to his naked and bleeding feet, as he reached Kentucky, he might appeal to have some kind-hearted senator to protect and save him. So far as the indulgence of sentiment is concerned, and so far as the obligation to respect the laws is concerned, the complexion of the fugitive could make no difference. The constitutional provision is clear and imperative:

  "No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due."

  Those who seek to escape from the obligation of the Fugitive Slave Law, may argue that there can be no property in human beings, and that therefore no one can have a right to service from a slave; but he is compelled to admit that a master to whom an apprentice is bound is entitled to his service, and may reclaim him if he escapes.

  That admission surrenders the whole question. To ascertain whether the master who seeks to reclaim a fugitive apprentice, or a fugitive slave, is entitled to his service, we are referred back to the laws of the State from which the fugitive escapes. The right of the owner to the labor of his slave will then be discovered to be as clear as the right of the master to the service of his apprentice. So that the right of property in human beings is really not the question to be decided; but it is whether a person claiming a fugitive is in anyway entitled to his service.

  But we take leave of Uncle Tom’s Cabin. In the glance which we have bestowed upon it, we have seen much with which we might find fault, but we forbear. We earnestly desire to see a perfectly good understanding prevail over the whole country. The question which Mrs. STOWE has discussed in her book is a transcendently great question; but it is a question which belongs to the South, and must be decided there.

  Let the Laws be observed; let the Constitution stand. An attempt to evade the one, or overturn the other, can only result in unmixed mischief.

  Time brings a solution to all the great questions which affect the fortunes of our race. If the condition of the African race, subjected to servitude in the Southern States, does appear dark to beholders outside of our limits, they cannot fail to see that, under the guidance of that Providence which shapes the destinies of all nations, a reflux influence may yet be turned upon that benighted Continent from which the race originally came. In our own country, let us uphold the Constitution and the Laws, and leave the institutions of the country to be unfolded in the great FUTURE.

WALPOLE.



1. Uncle Tom's Cabin, or Life Among the Lowly. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE. Boston: J.P. Jewett & Co. 2 vols. 12 mo.
2. A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin, presenting the Original Facts and Documents upon which the Story is founded, together with Corroborative Statements verifying the Truth of the Work. By HARRIET BEECHER STOWE. Boston: J.P. Jewett & Co. 1850. 8 vo. pp. 262.
  IT is quite too late in the day to review Uncle Tom's Cabin; but it is not too late to speak of the subject to which it relates, and from which it derives much of its interest. Upon the discussion of this subject, surrounded as it is with difficulties, and hedged about with sensitive and vehement passions, the publication of Mrs. Stowe's work has exerted an important influence. It has not merely fanned the excitement of parties; it has induced many sober and reflecting people, who had hitherto stood aloof from a controversy which had too much the aspect of a bitter political feud, managed on both hands with equal indiscretion and acrimony, to turn their thoughts towards it again, in the hope of finding some middle course, or of suggesting some plan which might have an effect to alleviate the evil which it seemed impossible to eradicate. It is for this class of persons only that the present article is intended.

   The enthusiastic reception of Mrs. Stowe's novel is the result of various causes. One is the merit of the book itself. 

It is, unquestionably, a work of genius. It has defects of conception and style, exhibits a want of artistic skill, is often tame and inadequate in description, and is tinctured with methodistic cant; but, with all its blemishes,—thought, imagination, feeling, high moral and religious sentiment, and dramatic power shine in every page. It has the capital excellence of exciting the interest of the reader; this never stops or falters from the beginning to the end. The characters are drawn with spirit and truth. St. Clare is a person of talents and education, high-minded, generous, and impulsive; the influences of his position and circumstances on his character are well developed. Ophelia is an admirable picture of a conscientious, practical, kind-hearted, energetic New England woman. St. Clare's wife is well imagined, but somewhat overdrawn. Tbe Shelbys are worthy, amiable, commonplace people, soberly and truly sketched. Legree is a monster, and is painted in strong colors; but the picture wants truth and minuteness of detail to bring out the conception, for no woman's hand could properly describe him. The pencil that drew Front de Boeuf, Dick Hatteraick, and William de la Marck would have made him start from the canvas. We fear he is not exaggerated. There are many such at the North and South; only, in the North, we do not give them so much power, and they sometimes, when not saved by the "ingenuity of counsel," or an executive pardon, or the sympathy of a jury, or the lenity of an elected judge, meet their reward in the dungeon or on the gallows. Eva and Tom are dreams; the one is a saint, the other an angel. But dreams are founded on realities, and "we are all such stuff as dreams are made of." These characters are both exaggerated; but to color and idealize is the privilege of romance, provided the picture does not overstep the modesty of nature or contradict nature. There are no Evas or Uncle Toms, but there are some who possess, in a lower degree, their respective virtues. Many a home has been blessed by the presence, and darkened by the departure, of a child, whose early intelligence seemed inspired, and whose purity, sweetness, and love were too delicate to mingle with the coarse passions of the world;—and many an old family servant in the South is distinguished for probity, fidelity, truthfulness, and religious feeling, and, slave though he be, is the object of respect and attachment.
   But whatever may be the literary merits of Uncle Tom, they do not account for its success. It exhibits by no means the highest order of genius or skill. It is not to be named in comparison with the novels of Scott or Dickens; and in regard to variety of knowledge, eloquence, imaginative power, and spirited delineations of life and character, manners and events, it is inferior even to those of Bulwer, or Currer Bell, or Hawthorne. Yet none of these have been read and talked of, for months together, by Europe and America, or have sensibly influenced a great moral movement, or have disturbed whole communities by the dread of a social revolution. It is true, that, were Uncle Tom not well written, it would not have produced these effects; but the result is so disproportioned to its merit as a work of art, that we must look to other causes. The book has one idea and purpose to which it is wholly devoted. Its sole object is to reveal to the world the nature of American slavery, and thus to promote the cause of abolition.

   Now this subject of slavery is one in which the world, or at least the reading and thinking part of it, which has become a very large part, just now takes a very lively interest. In Europe, the dream of political liberty, in the sense of the French Revolutionary school, has vanished. It has been discovered, after repeated and most disastrous experiments, that it means the absolute power of the mob and its demagogues; that equality means plunder, and fraternity, massacre. The people of France have discovered, by bitter experience, that there, at least, democracy is inconsistent with freedom, property, and civilization; and they have acquiesced quietly and cheerfully in a strong government, supported and guided by the public opinion of the rich and educated, and surrounded by bayonets to protect property and order, and keep the dangerous classes in subjection.

   Disenchanted on the subject of political liberty, disgusted with Kossuth, and Mazzini, and Louis Blanc, tired and out of humor with Poles and Hungarians, with French Revolutions, Chartist movements, and Irish rebellions, which have ended in nothing but sound and fury, because destitute of truth and reason, adequate cause, virtuous motive, or definite purpose; their sympathies have found an object in the condition of the negro slave. Political liberty, in the democratic sense, they have found a delusion; but personal liberty is quite another thing. They can understand why it is dangerous to the security of society to give political power to the ignorant and reckless mob; but they cannot understand why it is necessary for any community to deprive a portion of its people of all civil rights whatever, and reduce them to the condition of property. They see a great, prosperous, and civilized democracy, advancing with rapid strides to the position of a formidable power, rivalling them not only in wealth but in refinement, boasting of liberty, advocating liberty, openly and avowedly giving countenance and support to every revolutionary movement among their discontented classes,—yet all the while, holding four millions of its own people in abject slavery, and defending with warrant and defiance its right so to hold them. This strange inconsistency provokes comment and discussion. The subject is not a new one in Europe; late events have revived it there. Constant intercourse with us has brought it closer to their minds and feelings. They see in it an incongruity,—a contradiction to the advanced culture, the enlightened intelligence, of the age, a stain and blemish on the common humanity and civilization of the world. They have got rid of it themselves; personal slavery with them is matter of history. It lies behind them, among the barbarisms of the past. They regard it as a wrong and an evil which ought not to exist, and which, therefore, the good, the wise, and the gifted should endeavor to remove by those means which have dispelled so much moral evil from the world,—by truth and reason, by argument and persuasion, by the keen arrows of invective and scorn. Mixed with these sentiments, there is, doubtless, something of national jealousy and fear, something of dislike to republican government, and of triumph at being able to point to such a blot on its mantle. But these feelings only add to the excitement of the subject, and prepare the public mind of Europe to receive, with the greater eagerness and interest, the animated pictures, the heart-stirring scenes, the passionate appeals of Uncle Tom.
   With us, the subject is of far deeper concern. It comes home closely and immediately to our firesides and altars, to our honor and prosperity, to our peace and union. On it hang the issues of life and death. It is not an abstract question, to be discussed with philosophic serenity in the seclusion of libraries and drawing-rooms; but it involves property and security, sectional power and party power, and sweeps into its vortex the passions which disturb the repose of society and shake the stability of empires. The country has just passed tbrough a painful and perilous crisis growing out of this question, which yet did not decide it. It still hangs like a dark cloud over the horizon of the future. The public mind, like the sea after a storm, heaves and swells with ominous agitation, and parties are mustering their forces to renew the contest. It is a question about which many are alarmed, many more are strongly excited, and none are indifferent. Viewed simply as a moral question, affecting individual conduct and the condition of millions of human beings, it is one of deep and serious interest; but involving, as it necessarily does, a vast amount of property, and connected, as it has become, with party strife and sectional rivalry, moderation, fairness, and reason in the treatment of it are not to be expected. A work like Uncle Tom, coming at such a moment, so admirably suited to the common mind, teaching, not by abstract reasoning addressed to the intellect, but by actual scenes and events affecting the imagination and the feelings, written, too, with so much power and beauty, is eagerly seized on by one party as a valuable auxiliary, and indignantly resented by the other as a new attack. It becomes at once the topic of animated criticism and discussion, and the result is—it is read by all.

   Another cause of the wide-spread popularity of Uncle Tom is its foundation in truth. It is a highly-colored description of a reality. This is undeniable by any one who can reflect on what must be the consequences of absolute and irresponsible power, bestowed without reference to character. Here is the real source of the power of the work. Were it a mere fanciful picture of ideal scenes, it would have already taken the place of other falsehoods, and been forgotten; for it does not pretend to be a work of mere imagination, and if it did, it wants the creative power, the touches of genius, that could give it life as such. If it be not founded on truth, it is nothing. It has been accused of exaggeration, and it is said that the imputed atrocities are exceptions to ordinary usage. But the charge of exaggeration admits the substance, and to acknowledge the exceptions yields nearly the whole case; for the favorable view of Southern life is given by Mrs. Stowe as well as the unfavorable, and she does not say or imply that brutal violence and cruelty are either universal or general. The main points, the state of the law and the existence of practices under it which are inconsistent with enlightened and Christian humanity, and which are not prohibited, are even sanctioned, by the law, are not, and cannot be, denied.
   This picture of slavery has astonished Europe and the North. It has astonished many also in the South, who, judging of the state of society only from what passes before their eyes, are ignorant of the existence of what they do not see, or indeed of the true meaning and nature of what they do see, until their attention is forcibly called to it. Nothing is more common than such ignorance of what is passing around us. How few know or think of the scenes of misery and destitution in our cities; yet they exist within a few squares of the comfortable and luxurious homes of wealth, and we see beggars in the streets every day. Now and then, a statistical account, or a police report, or an investigation made for charitable purposes, reveals them to us. Otherwise we should know nothing about them, and perhaps indignantly deny that, in this land of plenty, in New York and Philadelphia, thousands live in all the wretchedness of extreme want, or that the percentage of poverty and crime equals or surpasses that of London.

   Some years ago, certain statements were published showing the condition of the children who worked in the English factories and mines. These statements produced universal horror and disgust. The attention of Parliament was called to the subject, investigating committees were appointed, and remedial laws passed. The amazement and indignation universally expressed by the journals of the day showed clearly that very few people knew any thing about the painful reality which these examinations brought to light; and, doubtless, had the charge been made without the proof, hundreds of sensible persons, living in the neighborhood of these very factories and mines, would have rejected, with warmth, the idea that such a state of things could exist in England.
   So it is with slavery. Very few in the North have more than a vague and general idea of it. No precise and definite images that mark its character have been presented to their minds. They have never seen the slave-pen, or the slave auction, or the slave-gang chained and driven along the road to market. They have never visited the Calabooze at New Orlcans, or the Sugar-house at Charleston. They have never seen the wife sold from the husband, the child from the parent; nor made acquaintance with the negro-trader, the negro-catcher with his trained dogs, or the negro-whipper, professions unknown in the Northern States. Very many in the South, too, are almost equally ignorant of such things, and those most ignorant from whom we are likely to hear any thing on the subject. These have seen slavery in its mild and beneficent aspect, in the old homesteads of Virginia and Carolina, where hereditary attachment and enlightened humanity have softened and mitigated the system. The evil of it, though around them, they have not noticed, or not thought of as evil; the good they know and are familiar with, and it is difficult to make them believe that the evil exists; just as it would be difficult to give to the amiable mistress of a sumptuous and decorated mansion in the Fifth Avenue or Walnut Street, a distinct and adequate idea of the misery and degradation of the dens and alleys of Southwark or the Five Points. We are all very prone to believe that our little sphere is the world; and it is a true saying, that one half of mankind do not know how the other half live Those who having eyes, see not, and ears, hear not, are greatly the majority; and the chief office of the preacher and teacher, the poet and the thinker, is to tell us what we are, and to show us the things that are before and around us.

   It is true, that, in some of the Southern States, particularly in Louisiana, there are laws providing for the protection of the slave from excessive cruelty, and for his proper treatment in regard to food, clothing, and labor. But they are so vague and general, encumbered with so many conditions, so easily evaded, and so very lenient to the master, that it is obvious they are totally inadequate for the end in view. In no case can a slave be a party to a suit, but must find a white man willing to act for him; and in those cases most requiring the intervention of the law, the oath of the master, denying the charge, is a sufficient defence. There is also one general principle pervading the whole law of the South, that no negro can be a competent witness against a white man, which, so long as it is maintained, must render all laws, intended for the defence and benefit of the negro race, nearly nugatory.

   A more signal example of the prejudices of race could scarcely be imagined; for such a principle, being contrary to reason, can proceed only from prejudice. It is founded on the vulgar idea that a suit at law is a hostile attack, and therefore, that the evidence of a negro, supporting such an attack, is derogatory to the dignity of the white man. This notion, natural enough to a party implicated, is unworthy of a government, as it betrays ignorance of the principles of jurisprudence. The first object of all legal proceedings is to investigate the facts in order to apply the law,—to discover the truth; and this principle shuts out the truth. Cannot a negro tell what he knows, and describe what he has seen and heard? And is it not sufficient that he is subjected to cross examination, that court, bar, and jury are composed of the superior race, and that his testimony will be received with caution, because of his color and condition? Is there any danger that he will be too easily believed when his testimony is against a white man? and are not the rules of evidence sufficient to protect the jury from falsehood and deception? Modern opinion justly regards the common law as unwisely strict in some of its provisions as to the exclusion of testimony; and the courts now discourage objections to the competency of witnesses,—desiring to open wide all avenues to a knowledge of the facts. It is thought that the sanction of an oath, the test of cross-examination, the opportunity afforded of estimating credibility from the manner, education, intelligence, and relative position of the witness, afford sufficient security; and that it is better to run the risk of admitting some falsehood, than to incur the certain evil of excluding much truth. The law which refuses the testimony of negroes refuses what must often be the best and the only evidence in the case, and renders all laws, professedly passed for the advantage of the slave, practically ineffectual, by making it easy to evade them.
   It may, with much truth, be urged, by way of extenuation and apology, that the system, on the whole, works well, as is proved by the rapid increase and general condition of the negroes in the South; that cruelty is rebuked by public opinion; that the large planters, the wealthy and educated, own the great majority of the slaves; that with these, as also with many others, they are for the most part well-fed, clothed, and kindly treated; that doubtless there is a certain proportion of bad masters, and a certain proportion of miserable, ill-used, overworked negroes; but that, in every community, violence, brutality, and ignorance exist, which produce, as a necessary consequence, much human suffering; that the statistics and police reports in the North show the existence of wretchedness from extreme want, and a constant succession of riots, brutal assaults, and horrible murders; but that it would be unfair thence to infer a general state of moral degradation, or to ascribe the presence of these evils to the institutions and domestic relations of Northern society.

  To this reasoning there is a conclusive reply. It is true that, in the Northern States, cases of violence and outrage are of frequent occurrence. But they are crimes; they are against the law, not permitted and sanctioned by it. No portion of the population here is placed beyond the pale of the law and excluded from its protection. When the Southern States shall have extended the shield of the law and the care of the magistrate over every human being within their limits; when wrong, outrage, and injustice shall have been declared crimes, and punishable as crimes, whether committed against white or black, slave or free,—then only will they be entitled to plead not guilty to many of the charges made against them by Mrs. Stowe. Till then, they must remain silent; till then, they must stand convicted of maintaining a system at war with the principles of enlightened humanity and Christian civilization. They must remain in a state of moral isolation from the rest of mankind, and behold pointed against them the whole artillery of the literature and opinion of the world.
  This is a frightful position for any people to hold. As moral evil necessarily produces material decay and disaster, it is one in which no people can live and prosper. It is one in which the South does not prosper. There, alone, throughout our broad territory, are to be seen the tokens of stagnation and decline. In no part of it, is its progress in wealth and population comparable to that of the North. To internal weakness and disease are now added, arising from the same cause, the formidable array of public opinion in Europe and America. Such a state of things cannot continue. It must, unless something be done to remedy the evil, come, in some way or other, sooner or later, to a violent and calamitous end.

  Is there a remedy? and what is it? These are important questions, and they are daily becoming more important.

   The South is a valuable portion of our country. Its extent of fertile territory, its staple productions, the cultivation, refinement, and noble traits of a large portion of its people, add vastly to the power and wealth of the republic. Its rice, sugar, and tobacco increase the accommodation and luxury of mankind. Its cotton crop alone is a vital element in the industry and commerce of the world, and has become essential to the comfort of all classes in all civilized nations. The prosperity of the South advances the prosperity of the whole country; union with the South is essential to the safety, liberty, and happiness of the whole country; disunion can produce nothing but anarchy, bloodshed, and ruin. Can no way be found to reconcile interests so vast with the dictates of humanity and justice? This is the Sphinx's riddle, which we must read on pain of death.

   The wealth and greatness of the South are the result of the labor of about 4,000,000 of negroes directed by the superior intelligence of the whites. These negroes are, as a race, inferior in mental and moral force to the white race with whom they live. This inferiority is proved by their condition here and everywhere. Being the result of organization, it is a permanent inferioritv. The negro is improvable to a certain point by contact with the civilized white, but only to a certain point. When that contact ceases, he relapses speedily into barbarism.
   It is a law of nature, that the intellectually strong shall govern the weak; in other words, that the weak shall serve and obey the strong. As the white race is the permanently strong, and the negro race the permanently weak, it follows that so long as the two races live together, the negro must be the servant of the white.

   But the negro, though inferior to the white, is still a man. He has intelligence, passions, moral sentiments, affections. He is capable of happiness and misery, of other pains and pleasures than those of the body. The laws of nature are all beneficent. If superior strength implies government, government implies duty and responsibility. The duty of the governing party is care, guidance, and protection, and it is responsible for the well-being of the party governed. From this duty and responsibility there is no escape. Whoever has charge of another incurs thereby an obligation of the highest character, which cannot be neglected, either by an individual or a nation, without incurring a heavy penalty. This obligation is a consequence of the great moral law of nature, which commands us to do good when in our power, to love our neighbor, to love even our enemies, to do unto others as we would that others should do unto us, and which binds together all men in one brotherhood, whatever the differences and distinctions of rank or race or nation.

   If these principles be correct, it follows, that the negroes in the South are naturally and permanently the servants of the white race; that it is the duty of Southern legislatures to provide for their proper treatment, and to protect them from violence and outrage. The masters must be required to perform the duty of masters; so far as the law can compel, they must be compelled to exercise justice and humanity, kindness and care. It follows, also, that these same legislatures are responsible for the happiness of these 4,000,000 of toiling human beings; that in withdrawing from them the protection of law, in declaring that they do not and will not regard their welfare, but simply the profit of their owners, and thus delivering them up helpless victims to occasional brutality and vice, they have failed to perform a solemn duty.
   These 4,000,000 of negroes, with their humble capacities for enjoyment and improvement, are worthy and meritorious objects for the attention and care of a wise and humane government. They are here. To send them away is impossible; to emancipate them, equally so. It would destroy great interests, it would endanger the peace of society, it would be disastrous to themselves. Ignorant, improvident, without self-sustaining energy of character, and of limited intellectual faculties, they are incapable of providing for their own support or caring for their own interests. Freedom to them would be like freedom to children, or to the domestic animals. It would be helplessness, abandonment, the absence of guidance and protection. Thus deserted, indolence, vice, and poverty would speedily degrade them below even their present condition, and they would gradually dwindle away and disappear, as they are disappearing in the North, where they are left to themselves to struggle with difficulties too great for their strength, difficulties arising from climate and social circumstances which do not exist in the original seat of their race, and which therefore they are not fitted, by nature, to encounter.

   The negro is naturally the servant of the white man, because all mental inferiority is naturally the servant of mental superiority, the degree of servitude varying with the degree of inferiority. It is his happiest position. His docility, his good temper, his bodily vigor, his intellectual weakness, all fit him for it. As a servant, under just treatment, he thrives and rejoices, and is tormented by no ambition for a higher sphere. He is a servant in the North. The menial labors, the drudgery of society, to obey always and never to command, to be forever one of a degraded caste, are his portion there. He has the privilege of choosing his master and his employment; but on the other hand, he must take care of himself and his family, a task often too great for his feeble powers, amid the energetic stir and competition of a stronger race. But he has one advantage. Servant though he be; inferior by nature though he be; though he may neither sit in the legislature, nor on the bench, nor vote, nor enter the jury box,—the law cares for him and protects him. He has civil rights, the right of self-defence, the right to wife and child, the right to hold property. Acts criminal and punished by law if committed against a white man, are equally criminal and punishable if committed against him. These rights are accorded to him in the North by the governing race,—some of them because it is just under all and any circumstances to give them; others, because the condition of society makes it safe to give them.
   The negro is a servant in the North, but he is a slave in the South. Slavery is another and stricter form of servitude. The slave cannot choose his master, or his employment, or his place of residence, or acquire property. He may be compelled to labor, and his master has control over him, and may punish his vices, his idleness, his disobedience, or insubordination. This condition is imposed on the negro in the South, because the circumstances and interests of society there require it. It is rightfully imposed; for the white race are the natural rulers, and may justly regard their own safety and welfare as objects of paramount consideration. For these they must provide at all hazards; but, in doing so, they must not violate humanity and justice. They have among them this vast multitude of helpless and dependent beings, from whose labor they derive their wealth and importance. Slavery with them is a necessity, whatever may be its evils. The peace, security, and prosperity of society, the interests of commerce and the arts require it; the well being and safety of the negro himself require it. But the laborer is worthy of his hire; and thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn. The free negro of the North makes his contract for his labor, and the law enforces it; he can defend himself and his family from aggression and outrage, and the law sustains him. The slave is deprived of the right to make a contract, of the right to defend himself and those dear to him, and the law should itself be to him all that it has taken away. The very helplessness, dependence, mental inferiority, and hard fate of this humble race call loudly, with the commanding voice of duty, on government to interpose, with special care, its protecting arm, to shield the slave from wrong by all the force and terrors of the law; to secure for him all the happiness of which his condition is capable.
   The enormities of the law of the South, as it exists in the statutes and judicial decisions of the several States, arise from one great principle upon which the whole system is founded—that a slave is property.

   This is an error. A slave is not, and cannot be, property. Such an idea is equally inconsistent with the nature of property and the nature of slavery; and it is because the institution has been thus founded on an untruth, that so much evil has flowed from it; for error is the source of all evil, and evil continually.

   A slave is not property, because he is a man. A man cannot be the subject of property, though his labor may. He is not a thing. Even in the lowest forms of humanity, he has intellect, passions, sentiments, conscience, which establish his brotherhood with all men, which establish the theoretic equality of man as man, and separate him from the lower animals and material things. To man, to the race of men, the earth was given as an inheritance. Whatever he can make, or modify, or add value to, is property. But man was not given to man to possess. He is not a product of industry, but himself a producer.

   A proposition so plain, it is difficult to make plainer by argument. Its truth is self-evident. No man can imagine himself to be property. Every instinct and impulse of his nature revolt at the idea. But the idea of subjection to a superior nature, of obedience and service in return for protection and care, of looking up to another for guidance and direction, is natural, arises at once from inequality of intellectual force, and pervades, in a greater or less degree, all the relations of life.

   The argument that inferiority of race confers the right of property is an obvious fallacy. What degree of inferiority confers it? The Indians are an inferior race. Are they property? The Irish Celt is inferior to the Anglo-Saxon. Is he property? What would be thought of any State that should declare him a chattel? Is the negro the only race who can be the subject of property? With his capacity for improvement, his courage, his warm feelings, is he so low in the scale of being that he cannot be recognized as a man, but must be regarded as one of the lower animals? If so, why are there free negroes? The idea that any thing can be the subject of property which yet cannot be appropriated, is absurd. There are no free horses. Free horses in a civilized community,—that is, horses turned out and abandoned by their owners,—are the property of any one who chooses to take them. Wild horses in the desert are also, legally, the property of him who can secure them. But free negroes are protected by the law of every community; and wild negroes, that is, negroes in their native land, are also theoretically protected by the law of all civilized nations, and though often captured by violence, such capture is piracy, and no right of property can be acquired by it.
   But though the law cannot regard a man as property without committing a wrong and violating the truth and nature of things, it may rightfully declare him a slave;—that is, it may determine the relation he must hold to other men. This power is inherent in the idea of government. It is constantly exercised by all governments. The only question that can arise is, not as to the power, but whether it is justly exerted in the particular case. If the truth be, as it undoubtedly is, that, under existing circumstances, it is necessary, to the security, well-being, peace, and happiness of the people of the South, white and black, that the negroes should be slaves; that is to say, not chattels, but men deprived of liberty, compelled to labor, and bound to a definite servitude,—then slavery is an institution, or social relation, which government has not only the power to create, but may justly create, enforce, and regulate. But all power is trust-power, and is coupled with duty and responsibility. It is to be exercised for the good of the governed—under penalties. This is the divine and eternal law. If the governing party look to its own good exclusively, its action is injustice and oppression, the punishment for which is the vengeance of the injured, or the constant dread of it; for
"Fears attend
The steps of wrong."
  The slave is a party governed, for whose benefit the power to govern exists as much as for that of his master. In so far as he has been governed justly, slavery has been found consistent with his happiness and the well-being of society. In so far as he has been governed unjustly, in so far as his master's interest and not his welfare has been exclusively regarded, slavery has proved a danger and a sore evil, a disease and a canker in the state; has roused the indignation and opposition of the world, and called forth deadly passions that threaten the repose and existence of society.

   There are, no doubt, some persons,—believers in the "rights of man," according to the French Jacobinical version of them,—who would deny the power of government to establish such a relation as master and slave, however much the condition of things might require it, and however carefully it might be guarded from abuse. They consider personal liberty as one of those rights, and political liberty as another. But these notions about vague and undefined rights, incapable of practical application, have been long since banished from the counsels of the wise. They are necessarily violated by every government; and, if carried out to their extreme consequences, would destroy all government whatever. The only right of man is to be governed according to the principles of truth, reason, and justice, for his own happiness. The government which suits the mental and moral condition of a nation is the rightful one, whatever its form, for that nation, whether power be intrusted to one, or a few, or many,—whether it be by the people or not, provided always, it be for the people.

   No one worthy a reply would contend that political liberty, or, in other words, a share of political power, ought to be given to the negroes of the South, or that it is not, in some cases, properly withheld from the negroes of the North. Political power is refused by all governments to women and minors,—by most governments to the very poor and ignorant, and for the same reason that it is withheld from negroes, North or South,—their presumed incapacity to exercise it. Yet, if the abstract right exist, such refusal is a wrong. So with regard to personal liberty. The law everywhere establishes various relations by which this is violated; by which one person is subjected to the will of another, under certain conditions and restrictions suited to the nature of the case. Such are the relations of husband and wife, parent and child, master and apprentice, master and servant, the master of a vessel and the mariners, the officers of an army and the troops, the commander of a ship-of-war and the sailors. In all these cases, individuals are deprived of personal liberty, and subjected to the authority, more or less absolute, of others, for their own good and the good of society. Were not both these objects intended and accomplished by the law, then it would be an injustice. The foundation of all these relations is the mental superiority of those to whom authority is intrusted. Slavery rests on the same basis. Government has the same power to establish and regulate this relation as others. Slavery is necessary to the repose, prosperity, and safety of the white race in the South, because of the numbers and degraded condition of the negroes; it is also essential to the well-being of the negro, because of his incapacity to govern and take care of himself, and because experience shows that he is by nature fitted for this relation, and that he thrives and is happy in it. Slavery, therefore, exists rightfully in the South. No rights of the negro are violated when he is made a slave. His right, like that of all men, is to be governed for his own benefit. Some even go so far as to maintain that a social relation, founded on the same principles, and modified to suit different circumstances, a relation more strict than that of master and apprentice, and less severe and permanent than that of slavery, might, with equal justice and much advantage, be introduced into some of the Northern States, in relation not only to negroes, but to the swarms of emigrants who crowd our shores, many of them equally degraded by ignorance, poverty, and vice, and equally needing care, guidance, and government. Less liberty in them, and more authority over them, would be alike beneficial to themselves and society. But as these last have not only personal liberty, but political power, and can influence or decide an election, and as their votes are more easily gained by flattering their passions than by governing them for their good, such provision can scarcely be expected; and, for our own part, we are not sure that it is desirable.
   The governments of the Southern States, then, commit no wrong when they keep the negro in slavery; but they do commit a wrong, and violate the truth of things, when they declare that he is property. The consequences that flow from this distinction are most important, and show the imperative necessity of founding all institutions and all reasoning on the eternal principles of moral truth.

   From the error, the falsellood, that man can be the subject of property, which is the basis of the law and practice of slavery in the South, have arisen most of the evils of the system,—the reproach and odium that have been heaped upon it, and the alienation of the Northern people. This doctrine of property once admitted, the consequences are obvious. It implies absolute control on the part of the owner, without duties or responsibilities to the thing owned. It implies that the property exists only for the benefit of the owner, which is alone worthy of regard or care; that it has no interests or enjoyments which the law can recognize. It implies that any one may be an owner, however depraved and vicious. These are the legal and logical consequences that flow from such a principle; and they are established, with few exceptions, theoretically in the law, and practically in the habits of the South; though the enlightened humanity of slave-owners has very generally softened the shocking hardness of the system, and exercised the terrible power conferred on them with a moderation and gentleness worthy of the race from which they sprang and of a Christian age and country. The power, nevertheless, is claimed by all to its fullest extent, and whilst the law gives it, the stigma cannot be effaced.

   Could this false and wicked principle be stricken out of the law, slavery would then, in truth, become what its advocates claim it to be, one of the domestic relations. Give the slave his true position—that of a man, of a servant, and a perpetual servant, and immediately would arise mutual duties and responsibilities,—of care, kindness, and protection on the one part, of obedience, loyalty, and service on the other, which could be clearly defined and enforced by the law. Government could then regard the slave as the legitimate object of its care and attention, could provide practically and really for his welfare, and could limit the povrer of the master, so as to prevent its abuse; could also say, who should not be masters,—controlling this relation, for the good of both parties and of society, as it does the other relations of life. The slave could be shielded from excessive cruelty, from absolute degradation; some rights could be given him; and, as his improved condition enlarged his mind, these could be, and would be, extended, until the relation would lose its repulsive features, and take its place among the kindly and humane institutions of society. All this could be done without weakening, in any degree, the authority which any virtuous and enlightened slave-holder either exercises or desires to exercise. Much must still be left with him. His power must be maintained; but the gross abuse of power, by the brutal, the avaricious, the passionate, and the vile, might be restrained.
   Each party would be a gainer by such a system. The injurious moral influences of slavery upon the master and upon the community would be diminished by wholesome restraint; scenes of revolting cruelty would be prevented; a sore reproach would be removed from the South and from the country, whilst the friends of both would be encouraged and strengthened in the contests too likely to arise from this unhappy subject. The slave would be equally benefited. Not only would better treatment be secured to him, in many cases where it is now wanting, but his moral condition would be improved by the feeling that he was guarded and protected; by the knowledge that there was a power above his master, to which he could appeal from wrong and outrage. He would be elevated, in his own esteem, by the consciousness that he was working for something; that the law gave him a right to his humble food and raiment and shelter; and that he was better than the ox or the mule, the companions of his toil.
   The truth, that the slave does really, notwithstanding the law, stand in a human relation to his master, is recognized by the practice and language of a large number of wealthy, educated, and humane proprietors. Their ideas and their conduct are in advance of the law. They speak habitually of slavery as a domestic institution, as one of the social relations. Custom and opinion among these, especially in the old States, and where families have inherited their property, secure to the slave much kindness and many privileges. Mutual attachment has grown up between the parties. A certain standard of treatment has been established in regard to holidays, food, clothing, work, discipline, and punishment, well suited to the character of the negro, and which, on many estates, could hardly be improved. This standard cannot be widely departed from without loss of character. But unfortunately the gentlemen, the enlightened and humane, those who have character and position to lose, and who can be influenced by public opinion, by any thing short of legal restraint in the pursuit of their interest or the gratification of their passions, are not appointed by the law as the exclusive owners of slaves. The trader, the speculator, who buys land and negroes to make money, and who regards the latter simply as stock, as an investment,—the mercenary, the reckless, the brutal, still remain; and to these, also, the law gives the negro as a chattel, stripped of every human right, the helpless, unshielded, uncared for victim of rapacity, of selfishness, of coarse and violent passions inflamed by the possession of absolute power.

   Now, here is the point of the case. This is the evil set forth in vivid colors by Mrs. Stowe; and the only question for sane men to consider is, can this evil be remedied?—not can slavery be abolished; that is neither possible nor desirable. But can it be made to conform to the dictates of humanity and justice, to the enliglltened opinion of the civilized world? This evil, like all moral evil, is the result of error, of falsehood. It follows, as a necessary consequence, from the law which says that man can be property, that a slave is property, which is untrue, and being so, every inference from it, whether of doctrine or practice, must be untrue and pernicious.
   Let the law tell the truth. Let it say that a slave is not, and cannot be, property; that, as a man, he is entitled to justice, to the care of government, to protection from wrong, and the subject at once becomes manageable. Let the law conform to and execute the virtuous and enlightened portion of public sentiment in the South; let it really make slavery a domestic institution; let it enforce, universally, in the treatment of slaves, the customs and habits which have grown up among respectable masters; let it describe slaves, not as chattels, but in the wise and truthful language of the Constitution, as "persons held to service and labor"; and a new light would break in the horizon over this terrible subject, the light of dawn. We might then hope for day. Slavery would assume a new aspect. It would put on the robes of justice and truth. The Southern people would then have an answer to the charges made against them. They could say, we have this race among us. They are bound to us, and we to them, for good and for evil. To get rid of them is impossible; to emancipate them, equally so. It would involve calamities far worse than slavery to us and to them. The only thing that remains for us to do is to take care of them, to govern them for our welfare and their own; and that we are doing, that we mean to do.

   Had this been done heretofore, there would have been no abolition party, and Uncle Tom would never have been written. Were it done now, its influence on opinion would be imediately felt. The chief argument of the abolitionists would be taken away. The moral sense of one half of the country would no longer be revolted at the life and habits of the other; the moderate, the judicious, the lovers of their counlry and of humanity, those who regard the right and the true as above country, above life, above every thing earthly, could give to slavery their support and aid; the fanatic, the demagogue, would be disarmed, and the frightful dangers which surround the agitation of this subject might be averted.

   Whatever the motive of Mrs. Stowe's books, their effect will be good. They point to the truth, and the truth is always beneficial. It is the one thing needful in the management of all affairs. In the novel, the truth is not merely told; it is painted; it addresses the imagination and the feelings. Being thus put into a popular form, the multitude, on whom abstract reasoning would be thrown away, can understand and appreciate it. Curiosity, discussion, investigation are stimulated, and public attention forcibly drawn to the subject. The Southern people are put on their defence. In this contest, they have no State rights, or constitutional rights, to fall back upon. These are no barriers against reason, truth, and justice. They must reply, and ard driven to apology, extenuation, denial, or confession,—at all events, to examination and discussion, from which some practical good may be hoped. Their condition is thus revealed to themselves, the good as well as the evil of it; and there are among them so much wisdom and virtue, so much cultivated intelligence and moral worth, that they may well be trusted to find remedies for the evil, and to hold fast to the good.
   Mrs. Stowe has also, in her novel, unconsciously and unintentionally, done the South a service, by showing very clearly three things of great importance.

   First, that the general condition of the slaves, notwithstanding many exceptions, is a happy one, well suited to their nature. The Shelbys may be regarded as a fair picture of the majority of masters, because they are a fair specimen of the majority of families of respectability and easy fortune everywhere. With such masters and such treatment, the negro is as well placed as he can be. He has kindness and care, government and guidance, and is exempt from the miseries of poverty, idleness, and vice. His position is better than that of most of the free negroes in the North, of the peasantry of many parts of Europe, and infinitely better, in all respects, mental, moral, and material, than that of his brethren in Africa. A similar description of the condition of the slaves on a well-ordered estate is contained in the letter of a gentleman in Virginia, at page 8 of the Key.

   Secondly, the book shows that while the benefits of slavery may be increased and extended, its evils are capable of being remedied by wise and just legislation. These evils arise chiefly from the cruelty of brutal masters; from the separation of families by judicial and other sales; and from the defenceless condition of the slave with reference to others than his master.
   It would swell this article beyond its proper limits, to attempt a discussion of the means by which the atrocities produced by these causes might be prevented. In the slave laws of other nations, ancient and modern, may be found provisions which would palliate or wholly remove them. It is a disgrace to the country and the age, that our laws on the subject are more severe, with the exception of the early Roman, than any other. It is obvious that the cruelty of masters might be restrained by providing for the sale of the slave who is the subject of it, and by declaring persons guilty of it incapable of holding slaves, as they are certainly unfit for such a trust. The inhumanity of separating families might be prevented by regarding farm and plantation slaves as part of the realty, so that they could not be sold from it, at least by process of law; by prohibiting the sale of slaves apart from their wives, children, husbands, or parents, unless by their own consent, properly authenticated; and by providing that such sale should be void, or that by it, the slave should ipso facto gain his freedom. The slave might also be protected not only from excessive severity by his master, but from the violence and abuse of others, by penal laws properly executed.

   Laws founded on these principles would but enforce on all what are now the opinions and practice of respectable slaveowners. Similar provisions exist already in the statutes of some of the Southern States. That they could be made effectual, and to a great extent accomplish their object, by vigor of execution and by a different system of evidence from that which prevails, it is impossible to doubt. An enlightened public opinion, to demand them, alone is wanting; and it is wanting, not so much among slave-holders, as among those who are not slave-holders, but who vote; and whose ignorance, passions, and prejudices control government. These last, a wretched population, idle, vicious, and poor, such as grows up where free industry is degraded by slavery, and robbed by it, also, of employment and reward, oppose with violence every attempt to improve the condition of the negroes, because their selfishness and pride are gratified by having at class below them, whom they may insult and abuse with impunity. They are the worst enemies of the slave, and their liberty, or political power, the greatest obstacle to any scheme for his benefit.
  Thirdly, no one can read Uncle Tom without the irresistible conviction, that the Southern people alone can deal with this subject. Slavery, as this work shows, is so interwoven with all the relations, interests, and habits of their lives, that they only, who are thus in contact with it, can properly understand and manage it. It is no light task; and we believe that this novel, though written in no friendly spirit,—written, indeed, with much of the bitterness of fanaticism,—will have a happy influence in convincing the liberal and enlightened among the Southern people of the necessity for reform, and of stimulating them to the work.

   Much has been said of the evils of slavery; and it is a remark that passes current with most persons, that it is a social and political curse. It would be more correct to say, that it is an evil for any country to have any portion of its people who are fit subjects for slavery. It is not slavery that is the curse of the South; it is Africa. It is the presence of an alien, inferior race, with whom amalgamation is degradation and corruption of blood, who can never be citizens; whose natural tendency is not to improvement, but to barbarism; who make industry ignorant, unskillful, and abject; who form no part of the people, though a large proportion of the population; and who are thus a source of weakness, and not of strength. This is the curse; and it would be infinitely greater, were this degraded population free instead of being slaves. It is the punishment for the lawless rapine that tore the negro from his native sands,—for the nameless horrors of the middle passage,—for all the atrocities of the slave trade. A portion of the South being so largely African, slavery is a necessity.

   Wherever the white man can work, negro labor, slave or free, is an evil; but wherever the climate does not permit him to work, it is not an evil, if properly regulated. It is better that countries thus situated should be cultivated, producing, as they do, so much that adds to the wealth of the world. Without negro labor, they must be a wilderness, and in them, negro labor implies slavery. In the northern slave States slavery is gradually disappearing. With them, emancipation is possible and desirable, and must happen in the progress of wealth and agricultural improvement; for skilful, intelligent labor always drives inferior labor out of the market. Thus, natural causes are withdrawing slavery from the North to the South; from the region of wheat and grass, where the white man can work, to the region of cotton and rice and sugar, where he cannot work; from the farm to the plantation. There it must remain, or the land must be abandoned; and there, if under humane and just direction, it may be rightfully maintained, to the advantage of the country and of civilization.
   Thence, too, it seems likely to extend. Vast prospects are opening to the South, vague and dim now, but becoming daily more definite in the nearing future. Regions of undeveloped resources, and inexhaustible fertility, lie around the Gulf of Mexico, our Mediterranean, awaiting the hour when the valor, enterprise, and knowledge of a superior race shall call forth their stores of boundless wealth, to give fresh springs to industry, wider scope to commerce, new materials for the arts, immense increase to the accommodations, luxuries, and refinements of civilized man. All this may be won, and, in those climates, can only be won by the labor of the negro, guided and directed by Saxon intelligence. But it must be rightfully won. It is a rich harvest; but it cannot be reaped by tyrants and oppressors. For such, no harvests ripen. By the eternal law of God, failure, disaster, decay, and misery are forever linked to cruelty and injustice. This truth shines with divine light on every page of human history. Well-being comes only of well-doing; and if, in the reckless greed of gain, the callous calculations of avarice, the Anglo-American, in that day when he shall lead the negro to these new fields of labor and wealth, should disregard the welfare of his humble companion; if he care only for himself and his gold, and, carrying with him the arts and the cultivated mind of civilization, forget the moral virtues that can atone sustain him, the negro will be terribly revenged. Out of his wrongs will come the punishment of his oppressors. Fear will dog their steps; the hatred, enmity, and opposition of the world will meet them in all their enterprises; their energy of character, their intellectual power, will wither and decay in the foul atmosphere of selfishness and crime, and they will themselves share the degradation they impose;
"Thus even-handed justice
Commends the ingredients of our poisoned cllalice
To our own lips."
  They may succeed for a time; they may grow cotton and rice and sugar, and make money; but, like all ill-gotten wealth, it will prove not a blessing, but a curse.The punishment will be sure to come at last. As Carlyle says:—

"Foolish men imagine, that, because judgment for an evil thing is delayed, there is no justice but an accidental one here below. Judgment for an evil thing is many times delayed, some day or two, some century or two, but it is sure as life, it is sure as death. In the centre of the whirlwind, verily, now, as in the oldest days, dwells and speaks a God. The great Soul of the world is just.''
  The fate of St. Domingo, of Cuba, and of Jamaica is full of instruction and warning.

   One word more. It is said, perhaps truly, that the existence of this Union depends on the execution of the fugitive slave law of 1850. That law is not liked at the North. By some, it is openly and vehemently denounced and opposed; by many, it is reluctantly acquiesced in, as a hateful necessity. There are very many whom this law places in a most painful conflict between their reverence for right, and their love and duty to their country. They appreciate fully all the evils of disunion; they also appreciate fully all the shame and misery of living under a law that shocks their sentiments of humanity and justice, and of giving to it their aid and support; for "whoso consents to wrong doeth wrong." A law which is thus revolting to the conscience of a large portion of the people, and the best portion too, those who have a conscience to be revolted, is a narrow foundation on which to build the existence and safety of a great nation;—a narrow and weak foundation, which must constantly need the props of self-interest and party management, the underpinning of "compromises," to keep it up. Self-interest, party drill and tactics, commercial relations, railroads and telegraphs are not the stuff out of which can be made the bands which unite man to man as a brother. When alienated feeling has been produced by moral disapprobation, there is already disunion. The invisible central cord is broken, and its outside wrappings of paper constitutions, commercial ties and party ties, will show what they are made of at the first strain. The main timbers of the house are rotten, and the next tempest will prostrate it to the ground. The people of the North,—not the mob, or the worshippers of mammon in the cities,—but the people who dwell on the peaceful farms, who plough the hills and valleys, and reap their harvests, who are daily accustomed to the sight and the companionship of free, hopeful, happy, and law-guarded industry around them, are no admirers of slavery, because they consider it another name for cruelty, oppression, and tyranny. When they see a man escaped from such a state, their first impulse is to assist and protect him, not to send him back. When they see him seized by the officers of the law; when they. are told that he is a piece of property; that they must help to send him back, or give their support and encouragement to those who do; that this law must be executed on pain of disunion, on pain of national death,—there arises at once a hard and doubtful struggle in their minds, between their sense of duty as citizens and their feelings as men; between their love of country and their love of humanity and justice; between the claims of the law and all the influences and teachings of their habits and lives.
   If, however, they could look on the runaway, not as a man unjustly claimed as a chattel, but as a person who has rights secured to him by law, as a servant who had fled from his master, as one who really owed "service and labor" in return for support and protection, and who had wrongfully and foolishly left a position well suited to his mental and moral condition, thousands of honest and well-meaning men, who now oppose, or refuse their countenance and aid to, the fugitive slave law, would with joy and alacrity give it their support. The abolitionists would dwindle to an insignificant faction; fanaticism would lose its chief source of excitement, and the demagogues a topic for agitation. The subject of slavery would no longer be regarded as a weapon in party contests, as a means of influence and power in the ever-recurring strife of President-making, to which our politics seem now to have degenerated. It would thus be left, where alone it can be placed with safety, in the hands of the Southern people, who would be responsible to the country and to the world for its just and wise management. According to that management will be towards them the feeling of the North,—either coldness and aversion, or the sympathy, respect, and love due to worthy countrymen and brothers; and these are bonds stronger and more enduring than cotton and corn, than iron rails or iron wires, to preserve the Union, and to bind us together, not only as one nation, but as one people.
